Rwanda government should expedite passing of the Income Tax and Property Bill into law and rethink incentives offered to foreign investors as a way of rebalancing its budget in the wake of slow economic growth, the International Monetary Fund said after a recent assessment of the country. A team from the IMF led by Laure Redifer, who visited Rwanda from October 25- November 8, said that, “recent gains in revenue mobilisation have tapered off.” The slowdown in economic growth coupled with tax incentives to investors and the implementation of the East African Community’s restrictions on used clothing were cited by the IMF team as hurting domestic revenue collections. The IMF team was in Kigali to discuss economic policies that could support the completion of the eighth and third reviews of Rwanda’s Policy Support Instrument and Standby Credit Facility-supported programmes. While Rwanda Today could not get the latest total tax gap for the 2015/2016 fiscal year, the tax to GDP ratio was 16.1 per cent. “To re-establish a rising trend in the tax revenue ratio to GDP, the IMF encouraged passing of the income and property tax laws as soon as possible and analysis of the effectiveness of various tax incentives,” said the IMF team. The income tax and property tax laws offer the country the chance to rope in new taxpayers and boost domestic revenue collections to finance development programmes. The new property law introduces a five per cent capital gains tax on any sale and transfer of immovable property valued above Rwf30 million ($35,109). Finance and Economic Planning Minister Claver Gatete said the review of both the property and income tax laws is at an advanced stage in parliament. Analysts say the incentives offered to investors have also contributed to low domestic tax collections. READ: IMF to revise Rwanda’s growth down to 5.2pc The Rwanda investment code offers incentives in strategic and priority sectors such as agriculture, energy, transport and information technology. But, Angello Musinguzi, a tax manager at KPMG Rwanda, raised concern about the tax holidays reducing income tax rates and capital allowances and thus affecting tax collection in the short-run. The slowdown in economic growth in the second half of 2016 and early 2017 due to the drought that affected the agricultural productivity has hurt Rwanda’s major sources of tax revenue.In August, Commissioner-General of the Rwanda Revenue Authority, Richard Tusabe, reported a drop in revenue from domestic excise duty. The duty decreased by 7.2 per cent to Rwf5.2 billion ($6 million) in nominal terms as a rise in food prices left consumers with less money to spend on non-essential goods, according to Mr Tusabe. Corporate income tax collections also took a hit, with many companies declaring losses. Positive feedback Despite the challenges, the IMF team is positive that the economy has started recovering owing to good rains and expanding domestic production. The average GDP growth this year is expected to reach 5.2 per cent, which is above the growth averages for sub-Saharan Africa. IMF projects the growth to average seven per cent over the next three years helped by an improving trade deficit. The country has increased domestic production, which has reduced the import bill while restraining public spending and being prudent with the monetary policy. “In addition, the government implemented a “Made in Rwanda” policy to encourage domestic production of certain goods such as cement and rice. These efforts have led to an accumulation of foreign exchange reserves by the end of August,” according to the IMF statement. READ: Rwanda seeks to raise export revenue, local production According to the latest monetary policy and financial stability statement which was issued in August, in the first six months of the year, the traded deficit improved by over 25 per cent compared with the same period last year. The import and export gap was recoded at $671.2 million between January-June this year compared with $902.3 million in the same period last year. ALSO READ: EA countries do poorly to ease doing business   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.