God Father East Africa, widely touted to be the East African version of Big Brother Africa (BBA), is set to be aired in early 2018. Like in BBA, millions of cash will be up for grabs for the last contestant standing. They will be battling it out for Ksh2.5 million ($24,250). The last BBA in 2014 was won by Tanzanian photographer Idris Sultan. Producers, led by Allan Komba who works with EATV, have been conducting a series of meetings with the recent one happening in Nairobi, so as to ensure that the reality show takes off in the early months of 2018. Plans for the God Father East Africa auditions are at an advanced stage and will be carried out in Nairobi, Kigali, Kampala and Dar es Salaam. “If you are selected by the producers for an audition, you must be willing to travel at your own expense to be auditioned at a time to be scheduled by the producers in their sole discretion and at one of the locations nearest to the city you listed in the audition form,” said Allan Komba. To be eligible, one must be at least 21 years old.   Mr Komba also added that once one is selected he/she must be willing to travel to Nairobi for the show.  The producer will cater for Economy travel flight to Nairobi, hotel accommodations and per diem. The rules of the game remain similar to those that applied in the Big Brother Africa for a period of three months that the show will last. Only two finalists will receive prizes but a weekly draw shall be conducted with voting from public, for each participant for each week that he/she remains in the God Father East Africa flat. The GFEA 2018 shall be watched on either NTV Uganda, NTV Kenya or Citizen TV. BBA is believed to have taken a break due to financial constraints even though the producers MNet issued a statement saying that the show was under evaluation and when it returns it would be bigger and better.  
  
In a situation where the centre can no longer hold, the jackals will be watching.  
Country-wide blackout caused by technical glitch at Tanesco's power grid.