Global Humanitarian law experts have raised the alarm over national counterterrorism laws that could hamper the work of organisations providing relief in conflict situations. The remarks were made by Pretoria-based lawyer Sarah J. Swart, the regional legal adviser of the International Committee of the Red Cross, at a public lecture titled “International Humanitarian Law and Terrorism,” in Kigali. The lecture brought together students of law, lecturers, experts and practitioners as well as civilian and military authorities. Ms Swart cited unqualified prohibition of acts of “material support,” “services” and “assistance to” or “association with” terrorist organisations found in some criminal laws. Criminalisation “The provisions amount to the criminalisation of the core activities of impartial humanitarian organisations, and their personnel, who are endeavouring to meet the needs of victims of armed conflicts or situations of violence below the threshold of armed conflict,” she said. Other legal experts said that countries sought to strike a balance between humanitarian law and counterterrorism measures, in an era characterised by an upsurge of non-state armed groups resorting to acts of terrorism. “A country will protect its security before anything else, and decisively deal with everything viewed as a present or imminent threat,” said Robert Turyahebwa, dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of Lay Adventists Kigali. While the ICRC considers states counterterrorism measures as legitimate, it advocates “humanitarian exemptions.” Alfred Mwenedata, dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of Kigali, cautioned humanitarian workers to always observe the principles of impartiality and only stick to humanitarian work.“Some humanitarian organisations are accused of hiding behind the humanitarian veil to help rebel and terrorist groups,” he said. ALSO READ: Anti-terror laws can hurt relief action, study shows   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.