Feridah Rose, born in Uganda and now based in Copenhagen, says acceptance as a black artist can be difficult “especially if you don’t fit the norm. And this can be because of skin colour as well as your style of music or way of life. There are people who are open minded, those who have travelled the world and are welcoming or can embrace other traditions and styles. In my case, I have been well received.” Feridah moved to Denmark as a teenager; she combines African sounds with musical influences from the West. The result is soulful ballads with influences of rhythm and blues, jazz, funk and reggae. She refers to her music as afro-soul with elements of jazz and reggae. “I dislike the idea of being boxed in one genre. I love to experience and blend genres, keeping the music fresh and allowing the audience to get curious.” The soft-spoken singer-songwriter said: “I have spent most of my life in Denmark. Having all my family and friends in Uganda gives me the feeling of home.” Feridah has two albums to her name: Game of Love (2012) and Njabala (2017). The songs are in English, with some Kiswahili and her mother tongue, Luganda. Title track Njabala calls for freedom and women’s rights in the contemporary Ugandan society. Feridah won the Upcoming and Coming Artist award at the 2013 Copenhagen Singer Songwriters Festival. She was also a nominee in the Upcoming Artist category at the Celebrate Africa 2011 contest. She says the messages in her music are about hope, despair, disappointment, inner strength and self-reliance. Feridah has mainly performed in Denmark with her band and was the opening act for Grammy Award winner Angelique Kidjo. The band had a mini tour of East Africa this year. In Nairobi, Feridah performed live at J’s in Westlands on September 14, at J’s in Karen on September 15, and the Igiza Lounge at the Nairobi National Theatre on September 16. Her first live performance in Uganda was at the Bayimba International Festival of the Arts held at the Uganda National Theatre in Kampala from September 22 to 24. “I have mostly played across Denmark and this year we opened up to Kenya and Uganda. Next year we are hoping to play across Europe — Germany, UK, Sweden, Holland, Hungary, Netherlands, France — and maybe a return to Africa,” Feridah said.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.