It isn’t over until the nicely-sized lady sings. The nicely-sized lady sang. On Monday, dismissing all presidential petitions before her. Preparations got underway to swear President Uhuru Kenyatta in for a second term. A minority celebrated. Many were, no doubt, relieved. Tired of the uncertainty, adrenaline and high political temperatures. The majority were angry. In recognition of that anger, there have been renewed calls from many quarters for “dialogue.” There are two problems with those calls. The first has to do with differing understandings of the purpose of “dialogue.” The private sector and religious organisations, together with some civic actors, think the purpose of dialogue is “healing.” The definition of healing is unclear.  Lowering political temperatures? Assuaging the bitterness of the majority of Kenyans who feel not only politically excluded, but wrongfully so? If so, let’s be clear: Holding hands and singing Kumbaya is not going to cut it. Other civic actors think the purpose of “dialogue” is to have a serious discussion about what was affirmed by the September Supreme Court ruling. How the carefully thought-through processes for transmission of results and tallying were thwarted. How the numbers were padded.  There’s no interest among the private sector, religious organisations, the incumbent or external actors for any further discussion on electoral illegalities and irregularities. As far they are concerned, the chapter’s closed. Good riddance to bad rubbish.  Worse, they hold that anybody trying to talk about the right to vote is merely acting at the opposition’s behest. Which is not only untrue, but is short-sighted in terms of assuaging the majority’s bitterness and making the most of the opening provided by the Supreme Court’s September ruling to advance democratic practice in Kenya. Finally, the incumbent’s propaganda would have us believe the opposition wants dialogue towards political accommodation. Elite pacting. Power-sharing. Mkate nusu. Patronising external actors agree — they think any problem remaining can be resolved by simply finding Raila Odinga a suitable regional or international position. Both are wrong. Which brings us to the second problem with the calls for dialogue. The opposition has zero interest in participating in a handholding, Kumbaya moment. Frankly, why should it? Who didn’t watch the outrageous behaviour of the security services — primarily the police and its paramilitary unit — on Friday, November 17? Who didn’t follow the terrifying events in Nairobi’s low-income (and opposition-leaning) neighbourhoods over the past weekend? These are not indicative of an incumbent intent to “heal.” They are indicative of its intent to crush any lingering dissent by any means necessary. Do we accept that neither law nor institutions can constrain power? Do we accept that many people want to put this whole sorry saga behind them and get on with “life?” Do we accept that power can do whatever it wants and that our political preferences don’t fundamentally matter? Or do we say that “dialogue” is worth it. No handholding, no singing Kumbaya. Just brutal honesty about the abject failure of law and institutions to constrain and order power. And what that means moving forward. L. Muthoni Wanyeki is the Africa director of the Open Society Foundations. Muthoni.Wanyeki@opensocietyfoundations.org 
  Tanzania president and prime minister order exposé and arrest of individuals in car import 
Bosnian Croat Slobodan Praljak had protested upholding of his 20-year jail term.