From a young age, Bridget Wachira knew she wanted to work in medicine. Although she did not like the anatomy class in her first year of university, she was determined to complete her course.  On work-life balance: She beat herself up whenever she missed a child’s event at school. In her first seven years as a medical representative, she was driving between 3,000km and 4,000km a month with a young child at home, so she created a support network. “Find the formula that works for you and give yourself the best shot at success.”  She joined GSK 18 years ago as a medical representative. She worked in sales, training, marketing, and in the vaccines departments. She then relocated to London in 2013 for a brief stint at UK Aid as a senior advisor, and later as the Vaccines Market Leader for Africa at the GSK headquarters in the same city.  She returned to Kenya in 2015 to become the general manager, Kenya. Rising from an entry-level position to the helm is a feat certainly worthy of the question “How did you get here?” There is no secret formula, she says, except advice such as, “Work hard and let your work speak for itself.”  Fortune 500 has more women CEOs this year than ever before, with a record 32 making it to the list. In Kenya, women have a representation of 19.8 per cent, which is above the global and African average compared with South Africa and Botswana, according to a 2017 report by International Finance Corporation. “The higher up you go in an organisation, the fewer women leaders you will find,” she says. GSK recently launched a new asthma drug, and she is asthmatic. Her children are both asthmatic, as are her brother’s and sister’s children. She outgrew the asthma in the second half of high school.  ----------------------------------------------- Bridget Wachira, the managing director of GSK Pharmaceuticals K Ltd and general manager Kenya, was in Boston last month.  She was among the top 600 leaders of GSK who were meeting to discuss the next phase of the global pharmaceutical company. Among the executives, Bridget was the only one from Kenya. At that moment, she figured out that she wanted to find her successor.  In an interview at her office at the GlaxoSmithKline headquarters in Nairobi’s Industrial Area, Bridget recollected a conversation she had with herself.  “Here I was, a female leader from Africa in the company of the top 600 leaders of a global company,” she recalls. “I told myself that I have a responsibility to ensure that 10 years from today, if there is another meeting in Boston, there should be other Kenyan leaders there, male and female.”  Like many female CEOs who feel outnumbered in the boardroom, Bridget wants to send the lift back down.  Bridget says she believes in mentorship. She attributes her success to “guidance from the bosses I have reported to in the past: People who have seen what I can bring to the table acknowledged me and put my name forward.”  Her challenge to CEOs, managers and supervisors in the workplace is to celebrate the achievements of the people they lead.  “Do you prop them up when opportunities arise, and do you speak of their achievements and their desires and aspirations when opportunity strikes? This should be a form of mentorship that you do daily if you are in a position of leadership,” says Bridget.  She also has regular conversations with mentees. Many people are not interested in the “three-keys-to-success” kind of pep-talk, but want to hear about her experiences as general manager.  Weaving her experiences with solid advice such as asking them to understand the expectations and demands of the job, Bridget helps her mentees understand “strategic dreaming.” “I tell them to have a road map or a marking scheme. Look at where they are today and figure out a plan to tick those boxes. You have to accept that everybody works hard and you are going into a competitive process,” she says.  
  Tanzania president and prime minister order exposé and arrest of individuals in car import 
Bosnian Croat Slobodan Praljak had protested upholding of his 20-year jail term.