The African Development Bank (AfDB) has pledged $159.32 million for the second phase of the Dar es Salaam bus rapid transit system, which is expected to start in June 2018. The bank said in a statement last week that the Dar es Salaam Rapid Transit (Dart) project is aligned with the AfDB’s areas of focus —popularly known as the High-5 — for transforming Africa. The project, one of its kind in East Africa, is expected to transform mobility and accessibility in Dar es Salaam, a city with over five million people. The second phase of the project will run on the southeast part of the city along Kilwa road and part of Kawawa road — a total of 19.3km — which is expected to reduce travel time by 15-20 minutes, from the current of 60-90 minutes. When complete, there will be parking lots at all major entry points to the city — Mwenge in the north, Ubungo in the west and Kimara in the extreme west. Phase two includes procurement of buses and the fare collection system to be financed by the private sector. More than 100 trunk buses with a capacity of 140 passengers will provide both normal (stopping at all stations) and express services (stopping only at connector stations). READ: Dar sets the pace for East Africa with rapid bus transit system 400,000 passengers per day The project is expected to carry up to 400,000 passengers per day, on the main trunk line and feeder systems, and contribute to increased productivity and create an enabling environment for private sector investment along the rapid transit corridor. In October, findings from a team from the World Bank investigating the means to improve Dar es Salaam rapid transport found that land use across the project line will make the Dar es Salaam outskirts covered by the project potentially viable for economic investment. It will also create more than 3,000 jobs. It is estimated that by 2030, Dar es Salaam will have 7.8 million inhabitants who will generate 10 million trips per day. Inaugurated two years ago, the first phase of the project comprising 25km of special roads connecting the suburbs to the central business district was funded by the World Bank to the tune of $180 million. The entire project has six phases which, upon completion in 2035, will benefit 90 per cent of Dar es Salaam residents. ALSO READ: Sense of urgency as EA region upgrades its roads, airports   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.