Britain became the first government to congratulate President Uhuru Kenyatta after his victory was upheld by the Supreme Court Monday morning. United Kingdom Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson sent his country’s message in a telephone call to Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed. The Presidential Strategic Communication Unit (PSCU) said that South Sudan, Uganda and Bangladesh also sent their congratulatory messages, as did the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States (ACP Group). PSCU relayed the messages through Twitter. “Britain congratulates @PresidentKE @Ukenyatta through UK Foreign Secretary @BorisJohnson,’’ the presidential communication team said in the twitter update, adding that Ms Mohammed had confirmed the same. In their statement, the ACP group described the Supreme Court decision as significant and constituting “a remarkable moment for Kenya”. “This significant development goes a long way to confirm the country’s democratic maturity as well as the commendable functioning of its democratic institutions,’’ ACP said in a statement sent from Brussels, Belgium. Further, the group commended Kenyans and their government “for their faith in governing pillars and institutions of democracy and commitment to constitutionalism”. In their congratulatory message, the ACP states praised President Kenyatta for accepting the court’s annulment of his August 8 victory and for agreeing to participate in the October 26 repeat election. Support The group pledged its support to the Jubilee Administration and “it’s effort to move Kenya forward.’’ Meanwhile, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s team that successfully argued for the dismissal of two cases at the Supreme Court headed to Consolata Shrine in Westlands for thanksgiving immediately the judges delivered their ruling. Led by the lead lawyer Fred Ngatia, the team said they wanted to thank God for the victory. Mr Ngatia said his team has been performing the ritual since 2013, when the Supreme Court dismissed another petition challenging President Kenyatta’s win. Legal team Mr Ngatia was accompanied by a team of nearly 15 lawyers as well President Kenyatta’s chief agent during the repeat election Davis Chirchir, Ms Winnie Guchu and the director of legal affairs in Jubilee, Mary Karen Sorobit. The prayers were led by Fr Evans who also urged Kenyans to pray for peace across the country. “Do not be like the nine leapers who failed to come back thank God,” he said. Mr Ngatia, a Catholic, said he sought the intervention of Blessed Sister Irene Nyaatha, who assisted the poor in his native home of Nyeri. President Kenyatta was represented in the petitions by Mr Ngatia, Kimani Kiragu, Ken Ogeto, Katwa Kigen, Melissa Ng’ania, Tom Macharia and Ahmednasir Abdullahi, among others. Reported by Kenfrey Kiberebge and Sam Kiplagat.   Preparation for ceremony after court upholds October 26 win Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.