National human-rights institutions in Africa have agreed to push governments to eliminate poverty, reduce inequality and accelerate growth and sustainable development.Representatives from 44 African human-rights groups recently met in Kigali to define their role in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and Africa’s Agenda 2063. The event was organised by the Secretariat of the Network of African Human National Rights Institutions (NANHRI) together with the National Commission for Human Rights of Rwanda. “These groups are well placed to ensure that human-rights based approaches are adopted in whatever their governments are undertaking,” said Chemuta Divine Banda, the chairperson of NANHRI. The groups were urged to regularly follow up on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and Africa’s Agenda 2063 and advocate their full realisation. “We are calling on all human-rights groups to participate in the conception and adoption of policies and programmes to ensure the mainstreaming of human-rights so that no one is left behind,” said Madeleine Nirere, chairperson of Rwanda’s human-rights commission. Through the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human-Rights African rights groups committed to ensure all plans to implement the global development framework are human rights-based. They also resolved to fight against malnutrition, deaths from immunisable and preventable diseases, advocate for universal healthcare, access to clean water, reduce maternal and child mortality. Minister of Justice, Johnston Busingye, said the continued lack of basic social economic rights in the continent is a grave violation of human rights. Analysts say human rights bodies in Africa need to be resourced and empowered if they are to successfully hold governments to account and demand implementation and results.African governments are often accused of compromising the independence of their human-rights institutions. However, activists said African countries are starting to be conscious about incorporating the human-rights aspect in their development. “There is a commitment in the agendas of the different African countries, which is a good start,” said Florence Jaoko Simbiri, the former chair of the Kenya Human-Rights Commission, who represented the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions at the event. In the Agenda 2063, dubbed the “Africa We Want,” heads of state committed to make Africa a “continent where democratic values, culture, practices, universal principles of human-rights, gender equality, justice and the rule of law are entrenched.” READ: Rwandan activists want laws against rape harmonised ALSO READ: Tanzanians in the Gulf facing abuse, exploitation   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.