The haemorrhage of senior staff at national carrier Kenya Airways continued Thursday after the human resources director resigned from the airline five months after joining from Tata Chemicals where he held a similar position. Sammy Chepkwony announced his departure through a memo to staff, explaining that he had decided to part ways with the airline effective Thursday to “pursue other interests.” He joined the national carrier on June 2, just a day after Sebastian Mikosz took over from Mbuvi Ngunze as chief executive. READ: Deal that earned new KQ boss his job His departure brings to six the number of senior executives, who have left KQ following the change of guard. “It has been an interesting time meeting and working with the KQ team across the network. I particularly enjoyed my participation in the transformation journey,” Mr Chepkwony said in his memo. “I take this opportunity to thank you all for your valuable support and wish you all the very best in the successful turnaround of the Pride of Africa (KQ). You will in due course be notified of who will take over the leadership of the HR team.” Catherine Moraa (head of internal audit), Ms Lucy Muhiu (head of employee relations), Kevin Kinyanjui (information systems director), and Brian Mbuti (in-flight and jet fuel procurement) exited KQ early last month. Christopher Oanda, who had been in charge of KQ’s supply chain department for nine years, also left the airline on October 16 as the managerial shake-up took hold. Mr Mikosz, who took over the reins of the troubled KQ from Mr Ngunze on June 1, is said to be looking internally for replacements of the departed managers, but the company said it also remains open to bringing in new expertise from outside. READ: MIKOSZ: My job is to bring financial results at KQ Mr Chepkwony, whose appointment was announced by Mr Ngunze, has more than 20 years of experience in the HR sector, having worked for companies such as James Finlay Kenya, Nairobi Bottlers and PricewaterhouseCoopers. He holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree and a master’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Nairobi.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.