Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday extended an olive branch to the National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga by inviting the opposition chief for talks to end the current political stalemate in the country. But Mr Odinga, while indicating that he was willing to meet with the President, insisted that the opposition would only take part in talks aimed at addressing the electoral injustices of the August and October elections, and nothing else. President Kenyatta, responding to calls for dialogue by the Archbishop of Canterbury, The Most Rev (Rtd) Justin Welby, during centennial celebrations for the Anglican Church of Kenya at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi, said he was open to talks on uniting the country and rebuilding broken relationships. Also present during the event were Mr Odinga and Chief Justice David Maraga. Public This was the first time President Kenyatta and the opposition leader were meeting in public since the October 26 repeat presidential elections. In his sermon, Archbishop Welby said reconciliation was the only way that the country could retain its status as a model nation for Africa, and that disagreements can only be sorted out through understanding. “Kenya has been a good model of peace and reconciliation across Africa,” he said. “Reconciliation is a supreme gift of Jesus, and is so costly it caused Jesus to die on the cross.” “We have heard your message on the need for reconciliation and I hope everyone in the congregation has heard it as well,” President Kenyatta responded to Archbishop Welby’s request, in the process giving what appeared to be a veiled challenge to Mr Odinga. But the former Prime Minister, talking to journalists minutes later, remained adamant that his victory in the August 8 elections was “stolen”. “The foundation of any reconciliation in any country is justice,” he said. “Kenyans must be given justice, and for electoral justice to be served, the vote must count. Votes cast at the polling stations must be the same votes announced at the tallying centers. Until we do that, there will be no justice.” 