Rwanda last Thursday unveiled an Rwf2.09 trillion ($2.58 billion) budget that lays emphasis on infrastructure and industrial development. In his spending plans for 2017/18 which expanded by just 7 per cent despite a presidential election due in August, Finance Minister Claver Gatete lavished tax incentives on manufacturing including rebates and exemptions of duty on imports of industrial machinery. The incentives which are tailored to support the Made in Rwanda strategy provide for exemptions or offer significant reductions on imports of equipment used in the leather and textile factories, road tractors, high-capacity buses and trucks, and telecommunication equipment. The changes take effect from July 1, after legislators approved the Rwf2.09 trillion ($2.58 billion) budget. Duty on equipment used in leather and textile industries has been scrapped. The same applies to tractors, 50-and-above-seater capacity buses and trucks carrying beyond 20 tonnes that previously attracted 25 per cent. Telecommunication equipment was also exempted alongside devices used in payment systems such as Smart cards, ATMs, Point of Sale gadgets and their operating machines. Domestic industrial growth Mr Gatete told a joint session of Parliament that the tax interventions were intended to spur domestic industrial growth and add value to agricultural produce. Agriculture s contribution to revenue was at 30 per cent while industry stood at 17 per cent, said Mr Gatete. It should be the reverse and it means that there is no value addition. We need robust support for our industries to strike a balance with the agriculture sector. This would boost manufacturing and the service sectors, he said. Sixty-six per cent of the budget will be financed from domestic revenues, 17 per cent from external and domestic borrowing while development partners are expected to contribute 17 per cent. Domestic revenues are projected at Rwf1.3 trillion, representing 66 per cent of the total budget. The budget increased by Rwf140.7 billion on account of funding the upcoming elections, development of the new air gateway at Bugesera and two other airfields as well as an anticipated rise in the wage bill to accommodate newly established government institutions. The presidential elections and the additional wage bill amount to a Rwf44.9 billion charge on the budget. Made in Rwanda promotion Rwanda last Thursday unveiled an Rwf2.09 trillion ($2.58 billion) budget that lays emphasis on infrastructure and industrial development. In his spending plans for 2017/18 which expanded by just 7 per cent despite a presidential election due in August, Finance Minister Claver Gatete lavished tax incentives on manufacturing including rebates and exemptions of duty on imports of industrial machinery.The incentives which are tailored to support the Made in Rwanda strategy provide for exemptions or offer significant reductions on imports of equipment used in the leather and textile factories, road tractors, high-capacity buses and trucks, and telecommunication equipment.The changes take effect from July 1, after legislators approved the Rwf2.09 trillion ($2.58 billion) budget.Duty on equipment used in leather and textile industries has been scrapped. The same applies to tractors, 50-and-above-seater capacity buses and trucks carrying beyond 20 tonnes that previously attracted 25 per cent.Telecommunication equipment was also exempted alongside devices used in payment systems such as Smart cards, ATMs, Point of Sale gadgets and their operating machines.Domestic industrial growthMr Gatete told a joint session of Parliament that the tax interventions were intended to spur domestic industrial growth and add value to agricultural produce. Agriculture s contribution to revenue was at 30 per cent while industry stood at 17 per cent, said Mr Gatete. It should be the reverse and it means that there is no value addition. We need robust support for our industries to strike a balance with the agriculture sector. This would boost manufacturing and the service sectors, he said.Sixty-six per cent of the budget will be financed from domestic revenues, 17 per cent from external and domestic borrowing while development partners are expected to contribute 17 per cent.Domestic revenues are projected at Rwf1.3 trillion, representing 66 per cent of the total budget.The budget increased by Rwf140.7 billion on account of funding the upcoming elections, development of the new air gateway at Bugesera and two other airfields as well as an anticipated rise in the wage bill to accommodate newly established government institutions.The presidential elections and the additional wage bill amount to a Rwf44.9 billion charge on the budget. Made in Rwanda promotion