Potential contenders to take on President Paul Kagame in Rwanda's August presidential elections have begun submitting their bids to the National Electoral Commission. The exercise began Monday with the NEC chairman Prof Kalisa Mbanda saying that prospective candidates need to confirm the requirements on the checklist provided and that in case of missing documents, aspirants will be given a few days to sort them out. Frank Habineza, the president and flag bearer of the Democratic Green Party of Rwanda (DGPR), Rwanda's sole opposition party was the first to submit his documents. He was followed by independent candidates Gilbert Mwenedata and Fred Barafinda Sekikubo. Green Party Escorted by party members donned in the white, green and yellow colours of his party, Mr Habineza submitted all the documents needed to vie for the presidency, including proof of citizenship and a letter confirming that he had relinquished his Swedish citizenship. According to the electoral laws, the documents needed to vie include confirmation of Rwandan nationality and single citizenship as well as birth certificate and a letter from the political party noting that 'I am the flag bearer', he told The EastAfrican. Other requirements include a criminal record report as proof that that the candidate has not been convicted for more than six months, confirmation that one parent is a Rwandan by origin/ proof of citizenship, certificate of residence and proof that all documents submitted to the NEC are genuine. Following the submission, Mr Habineza said that his party is facing challenges including threats and intimidation of supporters by local leaders. Our supporters are being targeted by local leaders with threats and intimidation. The same local leaders also serve as representatives of the ruling party, something we see as inappropriate, said Mr Habineza, adding that some of his supporters have been forced to abandon the party due to the threats. Mr Habineza maintained that he has a chance in the August 4 polls, despite a predicted landslide win for President Kagame, whose party the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF-Inkotanyi) has been buoyed by other key parties in the country declaring they will back the incumbent. The Social Democratic Party, the second largest party in Rwanda and the Liberal Party, which have been part of the ruling coalition have rallied behind RPF and are therefore not fielding candidates. Several other small parties have also rallied behind RPF- Inkotanyi. Mr Mwenedata, an independent candidate also submitted his bid to the electoral commission. He told journalists that he encountered challenges as he tried to raise the 600 signatures needed from independent candidates -- At least 12 from each of the 30 districts. Potential contenders to take on President Paul Kagame in Rwanda's August presidential elections have begun submitting their bids to the National Electoral Commission.The exercise began Monday with the NEC chairman Prof Kalisa Mbanda saying that prospective candidates need to confirm the requirements on the checklist provided and that in case of missing documents, aspirants will be given a few days to sort them out. Frank Habineza, the president and flag bearer of the Democratic Green Party of Rwanda (DGPR), Rwanda's sole opposition party was the first to submit his documents.He was followed by independent candidates Gilbert Mwenedata and Fred Barafinda Sekikubo. Green PartyEscorted by party members donned in the white, green and yellow colours of his party, Mr Habineza submitted all the documents needed to vie for the presidency, including proof of citizenship and a letter confirming that he had relinquished his Swedish citizenship. According to the electoral laws, the documents needed to vie include confirmation of Rwandan nationality and single citizenship as well as birth certificate and a letter from the political party noting that 'I am the flag bearer', he told The EastAfrican. Other requirements include a criminal record report as proof that that the candidate has not been convicted for more than six months, confirmation that one parent is a Rwandan by origin/ proof of citizenship, certificate of residence and proof that all documents submitted to the NEC are genuine.Following the submission, Mr Habineza said that his party is facing challenges including threats and intimidation of supporters by local leaders. Our supporters are being targeted by local leaders with threats and intimidation. The same local leaders also serve as representatives of the ruling party, something we see as inappropriate, said Mr Habineza, adding that some of his supporters have been forced to abandon the party due to the threats. Mr Habineza maintained that he has a chance in the August 4 polls, despite a predicted landslide win for President Kagame, whose party the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF-Inkotanyi) has been buoyed by other key parties in the country declaring they will back the incumbent.The Social Democratic Party, the second largest party in Rwanda and the Liberal Party, which have been part of the ruling coalition have rallied behind RPF and are therefore not fielding candidates.Several other small parties have also rallied behind RPF- Inkotanyi.Mr Mwenedata, an independent candidate also submitted his bid to the electoral commission.He told journalists that he encountered challenges as he tried to raise the 600 signatures needed from independent candidates -- At least 12 from each of the 30 districts.