Faith-based Urwego Bank plans to slow down on lending to agriculture after many farmers defaulted on loans, pushing the bank into losses. Analysts fear the cautious approach to lending adopted by Urwego Bank will have a negative impact on agricultural productivity, household incomes and food security. “We have slowed down lending to farmers growing crops which are adversely affected by weather,” said Faustin Zihigi, chief operating officer Urwego Bank. Currently, Urwego is only giving loans to rice and Irish potato growers, signalling a shift to financing agricultural production where the risks are low. READ: Banks starve farmers of funds The bank’s non-performing loan ratio averaged 14.8 per cent last year, way above the five per cent average set by the central bank. In absolute terms, the bank’s non-performing loans reached Rwf2.1 billion ($2.5 million), with agriculture taking Rwf1.2 billion ($1.4 million). Defaulters The lender has also been forced to write off about Rwf300 million ($357,105) agriculture loans after farmers in drought prone Eastern and Southern parts of the country showed no signs of paying back. Urwego has already suspended financing the East Africa Commodity Exchange (EAX) warehouse receipt system, where it used to finance up to 100 per cent of farmers’ grains. The bank is the biggest provider of micro and small loans, serving over 400,000 clients, a big number of them in agriculture. The slowdown in lending has left many farmers in need of financing to buy farm inputs, expand their farms and penetrate new markets. This could also slow down agriculture growth, leading to an increase in the import bill. The fear comes when growth in agriculture has not fully picked up, partly blamed on low credit to the sector and heavy dependency on rain-fed farming. READ: Sacco investments in govt bonds not in best interests of the poor Prospective growth While the contribution of agriculture to GDP is expected to pick up to over four per cent in 2017 after it slowed from five per cent in 2015 to 3.8 per cent last year, the growth rate remains slow. The bank is pushing for the government to expedite subsidies in weather based insurance index scheme to unlock lending to smallholder farmers. Rwanda Today could not get updates from the Ministry of Agriculture about the insurance scheme as officials were not willing to talk. This paper understands as part of the efforts to attract players in the micro insurance in the agricultural sector, value added tax and withholding tax for weather-based index insurance was waived to make it more affordable for smallholder farmers. READ: Rwanda waives tax on agro-insurance There has been ownership changes at the bank, many analyst believe has partly influenced the new decision as the bank seeks to remain profitable. Opportunity International and its affiliates in Canada and Germany last year sold their 50 per cent stake in the bank for an undisclosed amount to Hope International, a network of Christ-centred microenterprise development programmes in countries. Hope International is now the majority shareholder with 99 per cent in the bank. World Relief has one per cent ownership. The transaction was approved by the National Bank of Rwanda. The bank has since rebranded from Urwego Opportunity Bank and new serviced have been lined up to serve customers better.   Despite the current supply problems, growers want a second processing plant set up. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.