I love my “exaggenation.” It is called Uganda and its nationals have exaggerated everything about it. Starting with the name itself, Uganda extrapolated from the Swahili “U” and the Luganda “ganda” would mean state of unity, oneness – living or working together. Let us just say here that the unity of Ugandans is less than exemplary. Not their fault though, in this confederation of 50 nations forcibly cobbled together by a conquering foreign power in an event rather than an organic process. But then going around naming ourselves “united”! But our tendency to exaggerate is not of our making either – it is congenital, inherited from our hunter ancestors. I was lucky to learn many folklore tales from my community of central Uganda and boy, were they liars! Baganda hunters were the biggest liars who ever walked the planet. When a hunter sighted a big antelope, he brought back intel to his friends with claims like “I have even touched its fur,” but they never asked why he did not just bring it home after touching it. When the hunter was urging his dog to run harder and catch the fleeing deer or slow down a buffalo, he would make promises that would make today’s politicians envious. “You will sleep on the bed and I’ll sleep on the ground; you will eat peeled potatoes and I the unpeeled ones; you will eat the steak and I’ll eat the bones!” so the hunter would promise the dog, but you know what would happen after the animal had been killed and slaughtered. Modern Baganda still exaggerate, especially when addressing our king, the Kabaka. “If anybody ever makes you cry I’ll make them weep blood; if they throw an axe at you, I’ll chew it up; if you ever die they will bury me instead!” is what I am supposed to tell the Kabaka if he gives me time. The exaggeration has now become deeply entrenched in modern management. What haven’t we exaggerated in portraying the alleged greatness of Uganda! In this “exaggenation,” we love figures – and as far as we are concerned they never read well unless generously exaggerated. To state the number of tourists who visit Uganda per year, we count airport and border arrivals, well knowing that half of these are retuning Ugandans, to justify what some European wanderer said a century ago that Uganda was the Pearl of Africa. Then we exaggerate GDP figures when we “factor in” the informal sector whose value cannot be verified anyway and voila, our per capita income leaps by several percentage points! To show that we are really wealthy, we exaggerate some activities to allege that many youth are gainfully employed. So although we have about 400,000 boda boda bikes, we exaggerate the figure to a million. How else would the authorities on the English language have decided to include the word in the dictionary recently if they were less than a million? And if you don’t believe the claimed wealth of living Ugandans, we have learnt to increase that of dead individuals. So when a prominent person dies, our tabloid will “reveal” the billions of shillings that he had stashed away that are causing a fight amongst his relatives. We are a great, rich nation. So now that our law allows dual nationality, what are you waiting for – apply for Ugandan citizenship, quick!   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.