Etihad Airways, the national airline of the United Arab Emirates, will offer one night s free accommodation at the Radisson Blu hotel on Abu Dhabi s Yas Island to all guests travelling in economy class from the Middle East, Africa and Pakistan, and stopping over in the national capital. The offer is valid from now until 15 September this year. This announcement was made on June 5, the same day that Saudi Arabia, UAE, Bahrain and Egypt severed diplomatic and all communication ties with Qatar over alleged support for terrorism groups by the latter. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Bahrain closed their land, sea and airspace to Qatar Airways and Saudi Arabia went further and stopped the beaming of the Qatar-based international satellite news network, Al Jazeera, and shut down its office. READ: Qatar flight ban begins, first efforts seen to resolve crisis The airspace closure to Qatar Airways means that the airline will now have to follow a corridor across the Persian Gulf to Iran and further north into Turkey and the rest of Europe. Other travellers from around the world will just have to avoid Qatar Airways altogether when flying to the Middle and Far East. The Maldives and Mauritius joined Saudi Arabia and the other countries too in cutting ties and Saudi Airways late Monday announced expanded service to Mauritius and the Maldives. By Wednesday, Mauritania and Jordan had announced scaled back diplomatic ties with Qatar. Offer On the offer by Etihad, Mohammad Al Bulooki, Etihad Airways commercial executive vice president, said: Etihad Airways is delighted to invite guests to experience Abu Dhabi. The capital of the United Arab Emirates has so much to offer all types of travellers, whether they are after culture, a beach break or sports and adventure." "This offer is for guests to make time to explore the many attractions Abu Dhabi has to offer during their stopover desert safari, the spectacular Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque, high-end shopping, world class hotels and restaurants, he added. Etihad Airways, the national airline of the United Arab Emirates, will offer one night s free accommodation at the Radisson Blu hotel on Abu Dhabi s Yas Island to all guests travelling in economy class from the Middle East, Africa and Pakistan, and stopping over in the national capital. The offer is valid from now until 15 September this year. This announcement was made on June 5, the same day that Saudi Arabia, UAE, Bahrain and Egypt severed diplomatic and all communication ties with Qatar over alleged support for terrorism groups by the latter. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Bahrain closed their land, sea and airspace to Qatar Airways and Saudi Arabia went further and stopped the beaming of the Qatar-based international satellite news network, Al Jazeera, and shut down its office. READ: Qatar flight ban begins, first efforts seen to resolve crisisThe airspace closure to Qatar Airways means that the airline will now have to follow a corridor across the Persian Gulf to Iran and further north into Turkey and the rest of Europe.Other travellers from around the world will just have to avoid Qatar Airways altogether when flying to the Middle and Far East.The Maldives and Mauritius joined Saudi Arabia and the other countries too in cutting ties and Saudi Airways late Monday announced expanded service to Mauritius and the Maldives. By Wednesday, Mauritania and Jordan had announced scaled back diplomatic ties with Qatar. OfferOn the offer by Etihad, Mohammad Al Bulooki, Etihad Airways commercial executive vice president, said: Etihad Airways is delighted to invite guests to experience Abu Dhabi. The capital of the United Arab Emirates has so much to offer all types of travellers, whether they are after culture, a beach break or sports and adventure.""This offer is for guests to make time to explore the many attractions Abu Dhabi has to offer during their stopover desert safari, the spectacular Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque, high-end shopping, world class hotels and restaurants, he added.