The signpost bearing Wanyama’s name, which had identified 250-metre lane for only a few hours, was pulled down and carted away on Sunday. The mayor of a local authority in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania has expressed disappointment after revocation of a street name in honour of Kenyan international footballer Victor Wanyama. The Ubungo Municipality Mayor Boniface Jacob says Ubungo National Housing Corporation Street was renamed in honour of Wanyama after the Tottenham Hotspur midfielder pledged to help develop the area. “We followed all rules and regulations to name the street after Victor Wanyama... I know what is going on," he said, without giving details. He blamed "politics" and "orders from above" for the revocation. “The decision to remove the signpost did not consider the development of the area which Wanyama had promised to help improve.” Birthday The signpost bearing the Harambee Stars captain’s name, which had identified 250-metre lane for only a few hours, was pulled down and carted away on Sunday. Coincidentally, the removal came on the same day the midfielder was celebrating his 26th birthday.   Wanyama, who posed for a photo at the signpost immediately it was erected on Saturday, is yet to react to the move. The Kenyan international was honoured after he graced Ndondo Cup football tournament at the Kinesi grounds at the weekend. He was invited by the Ubungo Football Association to attend the match pitting Kauzu FC against Faru Jeuri FC. Faru won 1-0. Mr Jacob, the mayor, vowed to ensure the street is renamed after the star player. “We promise to fight for that and get the positive results,” he said. Ubongo councillors are expected to give their stand during a council meeting next week. Wanyama enjoyed a highly successful first season with Tottenham after making an £11 million ($12m) move from Southampton last summer.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.