With the African film industry dating as far back as the early 20th century, not much is known of the pioneers of the industry. Among them is the legendary Senegalese all round creative Sembene Ousmane, celebrated Africa s cultural hero and a force unto himself. Referred to as the father of African cinema during his lifetime, the novelist and filmmaker was hailed for his works that tackled cultural and post-colonial themes, which were critical issues back then. Unfortunately, 10 years after his death, his works are barely known to most Africans, which prompted Samba Gadjigo, who was first Ousmane s collaborator and later his biographer for nearly 30 years, to embark on a journey of bringing Ousmane s work to life. From June 9-11, this year, Sembene, a documentary film on the life and times of Ousmane will be screened free of charge across 54 African countries and several cities in the diaspora, with public screenings in schools, theatres and cultural centres. It will also be streamed for free. In East Africa, Maisha Film Lab will be partnering with the Zanzibar International Film Festival, Kijiweni Productions in Tanzania, and Rwanda s Kwetu Film Institute to tell Ousmane s tale in the region. Amil Shivji, Dr Dominic Dipio, Dr Okaka Opio Dokotum, Prof Martin Mhando, Chande Omar and Hassan Mitawi will be the guest moderators at the various screening venues. The documentary Sembene, a one hour 29 minutes long 2015 documentary celebrates Ousmane s contributions to African cinema with the hope of reintroducing his works to a new generation of Africans and to preserve his place in Africa s cinema history. Completed and released in 2015 and having been screened at the Durban and Luxor film festivals and at the legendary Fespaco, the documentary is only known to the insiders of African film industry, which explains the need to take it to the people through public screenings. When Gadjigo met filmmaker Jason Silverman in 2008, he was motivated to do the documentary by the desire to continue Ousmane s work of telling African stories to the African people in an African style and they worked on Sembene together. The documentary s objective is to give Africans a chance to experience the life and times of a real-life hero, who led a fight in immeasurable odds to give back African stories to the African people. Ousmane was politicised when he worked as a dockworker in France in the 1950s. He started out as a novel writer, focusing on African culture and the struggle for Independence. In 1962, the self-taught creative completed his first film, Borom Sarret. He then made Mandabi, Camp de Thiaroye, Emitai, Ceddo, Black Girl, Xala and Moolaade, which centred around leadership and culture, from an African perspective. We need an Africa narrative of telling cinema and honouring Ousmane is an extemporary journey. Besides writing, which wasn t so effective, he defined the value of visual communication in storytelling, which I believe stays on to this day, said Victor Kagimba, the co-ordinator of Rwanda Film Festival. After premiering in competition at the Sundance and Cannes film festivals, the documentary has been screened around the world. It has been featured in over 100 festivals Sundance, Cannes, Telluride, Sydney and London, winning five awards. The New Yorker magazine named it one of the top 10 films of the year. With the African film industry dating as far back as the early 20th century, not much is known of the pioneers of the industry. Among them is the legendary Senegalese all round creative Sembene Ousmane, celebrated Africa s cultural hero and a force unto himself. Referred to as the father of African cinema during his lifetime, the novelist and filmmaker was hailed for his works that tackled cultural and post-colonial themes, which were critical issues back then.Unfortunately, 10 years after his death, his works are barely known to most Africans, which prompted Samba Gadjigo, who was first Ousmane s collaborator and later his biographer for nearly 30 years, to embark on a journey of bringing Ousmane s work to life. From June 9-11, this year, Sembene, a documentary film on the life and times of Ousmane will be screened free of charge across 54 African countries and several cities in the diaspora, with public screenings in schools, theatres and cultural centres. It will also be streamed for free. In East Africa, Maisha Film Lab will be partnering with the Zanzibar International Film Festival, Kijiweni Productions in Tanzania, and Rwanda s Kwetu Film Institute to tell Ousmane s tale in the region.Amil Shivji, Dr Dominic Dipio, Dr Okaka Opio Dokotum, Prof Martin Mhando, Chande Omar and Hassan Mitawi will be the guest moderators at the various screening venues.The documentarySembene, a one hour 29 minutes long 2015 documentary celebrates Ousmane s contributions to African cinema with the hope of reintroducing his works to a new generation of Africans and to preserve his place in Africa s cinema history. Completed and released in 2015 and having been screened at the Durban and Luxor film festivals and at the legendary Fespaco, the documentary is only known to the insiders of African film industry, which explains the need to take it to the people through public screenings. When Gadjigo met filmmaker Jason Silverman in 2008, he was motivated to do the documentary by the desire to continue Ousmane s work of telling African stories to the African people in an African style and they worked on Sembene together. The documentary s objective is to give Africans a chance to experience the life and times of a real-life hero, who led a fight in immeasurable odds to give back African stories to the African people. Ousmane was politicised when he worked as a dockworker in France in the 1950s.He started out as a novel writer, focusing on African culture and the struggle for Independence. In 1962, the self-taught creative completed his first film, Borom Sarret. He then made Mandabi, Camp de Thiaroye, Emitai, Ceddo, Black Girl, Xala and Moolaade, which centred around leadership and culture, from an African perspective. We need an Africa narrative of telling cinema and honouring Ousmane is an extemporary journey. Besides writing, which wasn t so effective, he defined the value of visual communication in storytelling, which I believe stays on to this day, said Victor Kagimba, the co-ordinator of Rwanda Film Festival. After premiering in competition at the Sundance and Cannes film festivals, the documentary has been screened around the world. It has been featured in over 100 festivals Sundance, Cannes, Telluride, Sydney and London, winning five awards. The New Yorker magazine named it one of the top 10 films of the year. 