Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni faces the uphill task of inspiring optimism in a struggling economy whose continuing deterioration is having a direct impact on his political fortunes. The president has often flagged improved economic performance among his greatest achievements, but the reality on the ground is different. As he presented this year s State of the Nation address to parliament on June 6, and the national budget on June 8, President Museveni said that the economy is on the right track. Inspiring confidence is critical as the country pushes to a 2020 target of becoming a lower middle-income economy. During his budget speech on Thursday, Finance Minister Matia Kasaija said the economy is not in recession but growing moderately. Mr Kasaija is optimistic that economic growth will rebound from the current 3.9 per cent to 7 per cent, although experts project further regression to about 3.5 per cent. I am optimistic about this economy. It is true we had problems. Our businessmen who were exporting to South Sudan and DRC had problems, and the drought caused problems, President Museveni said in his address. The president added that his focus would remain on manufacturing and agriculture. He said the traders can continue to suffer with the high interest rates, but something would be done for the other two categories. President Museveni s optimism is not entirely misplaced, given the expected investments in extraction of petroleum. However, with issues like the increased joblessness among youth, government wastage, corruption and growing national debt, with half of the national budget coming from borrowing, it remains to be seen whether the government will deliver on its promises. Tax collection On Thursday, Mr Kasaija read the 2017/2018 budget of Ush29 trillion ($8 billion), of which Ush14 trillion ($3.9 billion) is expected to come from external sources. Uganda Revenue Authority is expected to come up with the balance. While URA collections have been rising steadily, experts are sceptical that 2016/2017 will bring in enough revenue. Next year will be particularly challenging because a number of local businesses have collapsed and the environment is not promising to support URA ambitions, said Moses Asasira, a project co-ordinator at Adroid Consult. Under the budget theme of Industrialisation for Job Creation and Shared Prosperity, the government hopes to achieve industrialisation, value addition to agricultural and mineral products, improved infrastructure in roads, railways, air transport and electricity. Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni faces the uphill task of inspiring optimism in a struggling economy whose continuing deterioration is having a direct impact on his political fortunes. The president has often flagged improved economic performance among his greatest achievements, but the reality on the ground is different. As he presented this year s State of the Nation address to parliament on June 6, and the national budget on June 8, President Museveni said that the economy is on the right track. Inspiring confidence is critical as the country pushes to a 2020 target of becoming a lower middle-income economy. During his budget speech on Thursday, Finance Minister Matia Kasaija said the economy is not in recession but growing moderately. Mr Kasaija is optimistic that economic growth will rebound from the current 3.9 per cent to 7 per cent, although experts project further regression to about 3.5 per cent. I am optimistic about this economy. It is true we had problems. Our businessmen who were exporting to South Sudan and DRC had problems, and the drought caused problems, President Museveni said in his address.The president added that his focus would remain on manufacturing and agriculture. He said the traders can continue to suffer with the high interest rates, but something would be done for the other two categories. President Museveni s optimism is not entirely misplaced, given the expected investments in extraction of petroleum. However, with issues like the increased joblessness among youth, government wastage, corruption and growing national debt, with half of the national budget coming from borrowing, it remains to be seen whether the government will deliver on its promises.Tax collectionOn Thursday, Mr Kasaija read the 2017/2018 budget of Ush29 trillion ($8 billion), of which Ush14 trillion ($3.9 billion) is expected to come from external sources. Uganda Revenue Authority is expected to come up with the balance.While URA collections have been rising steadily, experts are sceptical that 2016/2017 will bring in enough revenue. Next year will be particularly challenging because a number of local businesses have collapsed and the environment is not promising to support URA ambitions, said Moses Asasira, a project co-ordinator at Adroid Consult. Under the budget theme of Industrialisation for Job Creation and Shared Prosperity, the government hopes to achieve industrialisation, value addition to agricultural and mineral products, improved infrastructure in roads, railways, air transport and electricity.