The East African Community (EAC) Secretariat has said it is not bothered by the planned boycott of the Secretary-General’s forum by the umbrella body for regional civil society organisations. An official at the EAC headquarters in Arusha said preparations for the two-day event, which kicks off Wednesday in Burundi, are on course. “We are not bothered at all. Officials of the organisation or their partners can attend the meeting or not. It is up to those invited to turn up or not,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Last week, the East African Civil Society Organisations’ Forum (Eacsof) said its members will not attend this year’s EAC Secretary-General’s forum in Bujumbura, over security concerns. In a letter addressed to the EAC Secretary-General Libérat Mfumukeko dated June 13, Eacsof also cites concerns over CSOs in exile and human rights abuses in Burundi. “We raised our concerns regarding the venue because of fear of the security situation in Burundi; solidarity with the Burundian CSOs in exile; and the human-rights crisis in Burundi which we are not pleased with,” notes EACSOF’s president Marie Ingabire in the letter. Plight of refugees The annual forum provides a platform for dialogue between the EAC-SG, the private sector and civil society on how to improve the region’s integration in order to boost development. “We are deeply concerned that despite several meetings in the dialogue process chaired by [Uganda’s] President Yoweri Museveni and intensive consultations by the facilitator former Tanzania president Benjamin Mkapa with the government of Burundi and members of the political opposition, little or no progress has been achieved at the negotiating table,” notes Eacsof. “We fear that the stagnation of the dialogue process shall only increase political instability, acts of impunity and insecurity.” Eacsof also says it is disturbed that the worsening refugee situation is a ticking time bomb. Accounts of harassment experienced by fleeing populations, including extortion and arbitrary arrest of people suspected of having links with the opposition clearly defy international law. “We are saddened by reports that an upwards of 325,000 people and still counting, have fled Burundi to neighbouring countries and beyond,” notes the communique. “We urge all to take note that the Burundi socioeconomic situation shows key macroeconomic indicators are on the decline, growth in the negative, investment falling, public debt increasing, and unemployment, especially among youth on the rise.” READ:Burundi refugees still streaming into Rwanda Eacsof further notes that: “We condemn the mistreatment of civil society activists and independent journalists most of who remain in exile after repeated threats and arrest warrants against several of them, in particular after the Interior Minister banned 10 civil society organisations that had spoken out against government abuses.” Skipping meetings However, an EAC official cautioned that the Secretariat would not like to be drawn into frosty relations among member states particularly between Burundi and Rwanda. In the last two years, regional meetings hosted in any of the two countries have been boycotted by delegates from the other state. Some of the forums which Burundi delegates skipped include the East African Legislative Assembly (Eala's) sitting and a manufacturing summit held in Kigali, Rwanda in March and May this year respectively. Only Burundi opposition MPs, who are members of Eala, attend the Kigali sessions. READ: Burundi MPs to face disciplinary action for snubbing Eala Rwandan representatives failed to attend the EAC health conference in Bujumbura in March as well as the petroleum summit held a fortnight ago in Burundi. Related stories -Additional reporting by Zephania Ubwani.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.