Tanzania's former Prime Minister Edward Lowassa was Tuesday questioned for four hours by police for allegedly making seditious remarks. Mr Lowassa, who is also a member of opposition Chadema’s Central Committee, was grilled at the police headquarters in Dar es Salaam before he was released on bond. The 2015 presidential candidate was accused of making seditious remarks when addressing Muslim clerics during an Iftar dinner hosted by Ukonga MP Mwita Waitara on Saturday. Mr Lowassa later told reporters at his home in Masaki, Dar es Salaam, that there was nothing wrong with police questioning him, but added that what he said last weekend should not be used to justify the suppression of democracy. “Police have the right to establish the truth about anything they are suspicious of. I used the platform to give my views, and the media should evaluate what I said and judge whether the remarks were seditious,” he said. Mr Lowassa was directed to report at the police headquarters again on Thursday afternoon, one of his lawyers said. 'Good governance' Chadema secretary-general Vincent Mashinji, who was among Mr Lowassa's entourage at the police headquarters, said the former premier had said nothing seditious. “He was speaking about good governance and human rights. Saying that there are people who have been detained for four years without trial is not sedition...it’s a fact. The principles of good governance should be respected and people allowed to enjoy their rights in line with the law,” he said. Sheikh Kitumba, who had attended the Iftar dinner, said Tanzanian Muslim clerics oppose terrorism in all its forms, adding that they supported Mr Lowassa because he had been advocating peace and security in the country. “We also support President John Magufuli’s efforts to restore people’s rights in the country. We hope that the time will come when people who are innocent will no longer be victimised,” he said. During the evening meal to break the daily fast during Ramadhan, Mr Lowassa had called on President Magufuli to intervene in speeding up a court case in which Muslim clerics, arrested in Zanzibar over alleged terrorism links, have been in custody for over four years without trial. 'Arbitrary arrests' Mr Lowassa was summoned by the police on Monday, a few days after Chadema leaders were arrested in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Iringa regions. They included mayors Boniface Jacob and Calist Lazaro of Ubungo and Arusha respectively, who were detained over alleged illegal assembly. The former premier has also said, at the weekend, that Chadema would not tolerate the tendency of district and regional commissioners to order police to detain opposition leaders for 48 hours without charge, adding that the party’s central committee would meet soon to discuss the matter. Mr Lowassa, a long-time stalwart of ruling Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) who defected to the Opposition a few months before the 2015 General Election, said leaders should operate within the law. “Police should not be used by politicians. They should adhere to the country’s Constitution when discharging their duties...arbitrary arrests are tarnishing the country’s image,” he said. He also demanded the lifting of the ban on political rallies, saying it was unconstitutional. “The President and CCM leaders go everywhere, and I have heard that they are holding countrywide demonstrations to support his various campaigns, but Opposition parties are not allowed to hold rallies. This is unfair.”   He said he suspected the probe involves his call for the release of Zanzibar's Muslim clerics. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.