Kenya s election in August has raised concern across the region on economic, security and political considerations, especially in Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and the African Union. With political temperatures and ethnic tensions rising, there are fears that the elections could turn violent and threaten trade. The EastAfrican has established that the African Union Peace and Security Council has already sent the Kenya government a note verbale (informal request in diplospeak) to be allowed to undertake an on-the-ground assessment. Diplomatic sources told The EastAfrican that the AU is trying to avoid a repeat of 2007, when it was forced to send a Panel of Eminent African Personalities led by Dr Kofi Annan to mediate after violence broke out over disputed presidential election results. With only two months to the August 8 elections, stiff competition is shaping up between two leading presidential candidates the incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee Party and the united opposition under the National Super Alliance (Nasa) led by Raila Odinga. Trigger refugees influx Ugandan human-rights lawyer Nicholas Opiyo, told The EastAfrican that besides the disruption of the import lifeline, the second biggest concern for Ugandans that if the elections turn violent, it would trigger an influx of Kenyan refugees into the country, where some of those who fled to the country in 2007 still reside. Such an event would put pressure on the Ugandan economy at a time when the country is taking care of many refugees from South Sudan, Burundi, Congo, and Rwanda, said Mr Opiyo. Ugandan and Rwandan traders who lost their goods during the 2007/8 post-election violence are still demanding $50 million in compensation from the Kenya government. READ: Traders put pressure on Kenya for poll violence compensation John Bosco Rusagara, a member of the East African Business Council, said that the 16 traders operating under the East African Freight Forwarders Association are weary of waiting for compensation and could seek alternatives if they note signs of a repeat. Last October, the High Court in Mombasa ordered the Kenya Ports Authority to pay Tanzania s Modern Holdings East Africa $819,500 for a consignment it lost during the 2008 post-election violence. ALSO READ: Why businesses are not taking political risk cover as Kenya, Rwanda vote Alliances Besides disruption of trade, the Kenyan election has also attracted political interest in the neighbouring countries in Tanzania and Uganda, with the focus on Ugandan President, Yoweri Museveni. Kenya s election in August has raised concern across the region on economic, security and political considerations, especially in Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and the African Union. With political temperatures and ethnic tensions rising, there are fears that the elections could turn violent and threaten trade. The EastAfrican has established that the African Union Peace and Security Council has already sent the Kenya government a note verbale (informal request in diplospeak) to be allowed to undertake an on-the-ground assessment. Diplomatic sources told The EastAfrican that the AU is trying to avoid a repeat of 2007, when it was forced to send a Panel of Eminent African Personalities led by Dr Kofi Annan to mediate after violence broke out over disputed presidential election results. With only two months to the August 8 elections, stiff competition is shaping up between two leading presidential candidates the incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee Party and the united opposition under the National Super Alliance (Nasa) led by Raila Odinga.Trigger refugees influxUgandan human-rights lawyer Nicholas Opiyo, told The EastAfrican that besides the disruption of the import lifeline, the second biggest concern for Ugandans that if the elections turn violent, it would trigger an influx of Kenyan refugees into the country, where some of those who fled to the country in 2007 still reside. Such an event would put pressure on the Ugandan economy at a time when the country is taking care of many refugees from South Sudan, Burundi, Congo, and Rwanda, said Mr Opiyo.Ugandan and Rwandan traders who lost their goods during the 2007/8 post-election violence are still demanding $50 million in compensation from the Kenya government.READ: Traders put pressure on Kenya for poll violence compensationJohn Bosco Rusagara, a member of the East African Business Council, said that the 16 traders operating under the East African Freight Forwarders Association are weary of waiting for compensation and could seek alternatives if they note signs of a repeat.Last October, the High Court in Mombasa ordered the Kenya Ports Authority to pay Tanzania s Modern Holdings East Africa $819,500 for a consignment it lost during the 2008 post-election violence.ALSO READ: Why businesses are not taking political risk cover as Kenya, Rwanda voteAlliancesBesides disruption of trade, the Kenyan election has also attracted political interest in the neighbouring countries in Tanzania and Uganda, with the focus on Ugandan President, Yoweri Museveni.