Togolese President Faure Gnassingbe has been elected the new chairman of the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas). President Gnassingbe took over from Liberia's Ellen Johnson Sirleaf at the 51st Ecowas Summit of Heads of State and Government held in Monrovia on Sunday. Founded in 1975, Ecowas comprises 15 West African countries, whose main goal is regional integration. Twelve heads of state and government attended the meeting, which discussed progress made by the community within the last 12 months. The rotational position of chairmanship of the bloc provides political guidance and it lasts for 12 months. President Sirleaf, who was elected to the position on June 4, 2016 in the Senegalese capital, Dakar, paid tribute to member countries for their role in helping Liberia overcome its war past to a point of hosting the summit, which she described as an indication of progress. It was 38 years ago since Liberia hosted such a major international summit. "It took the sacrifices and the solidarity of members of this community to bring us to this day, when we can lead the sub regional organisation and be able to receive you all in a peaceful and trending Liberia, " President Sirleaf said in her opening statement at the Farmington Hotel.  Integration She also outlined her achievements as head of the Community, which include the institution of policies and programmes for the consolidation of democracy and strengthening of peace and security, as well as promotion of regional integration. President Sirleaf warned of a "long way" to attaining "total integration" amidst struggling economies in some of the member countries and obstacles faced by the ordinary citizens at border crossing points. "To reach our objective of total integration, we owe it to our people to make cross border trade and travel as easy as possible by eliminating harassment and imposition of personal fees by those many border posts," she said, adding: "We must recognise that most of our people who travel across borders for trade, seasonal work or family visits do so by road. Small business and migrant workers constitute the backbone of our economic development and integration. "Commerce will greatly be enhanced if we have a seamless cross border movement."  Morocco Sunday's Summit, which also discussed international concerns like terrorism, was also attended by Israeli Prime Minister, Benyamin Netanyahu, the Vice President of the European Union, Mr Frans Timmermans, and the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary General on West Africa/Sahel – Dr Mohammed Ibn Chambas. The summit was due to scrutinise Morocco’s application for full membership of the bloc, months after the return of the North African state to the African Union following a 30-year absence. Morocco's King Mohammed VI, who was scheduled to attend, reportedly cancelled his trip in protest at the invitation of the Israeli Prime Minister. The summit was also to consider Tunisia’s request for an observer status. Also on agenda was the signing of a landmark Dakar-Abidjan Motorway Treaty and the inauguration of a regional Electricity Project involving Cote d’Ivoire, Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone under the West Africa Power Pool.    Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.