Marcus saw the drum before he was out of the Canter truck. His mother Joy, who had been wondering how she would get him out of the shuddering lorry, now had to fight to keep him in until the driver had parked. ************** Marcus was impatient. He had been born two months early. Joy was walking to Kalerwe market in the morning to buy fish when she suddenly went into labour. The contractions were so quick and intense she never made it to Mulago hospital, which was not far from the market. Marcus was the first baby born at Katonda Afayo clinic in Kalerwe. The clinic had opened its doors the day before. The woman who had held her up and rubbed her back as she pushed Marcus out almost fainted and had to be helped to a bed next to her. She was not a nurse, but had come to apply for a job as a receptionist at the clinic. ************** Marcus peppered her with questions about the drum. He did not listen as she protested, But Marcus, I have never lived here. I m as new here as you are. This is our new home. Marcus wanted to know what was in the big drum. Can I play with the big drum? Why is the big drum sitting in the air? he asked. The big drum was not sitting in the air. She could answer that right away, as she directed the two young men helping them to move their furniture into their new house. The two men who had travelled in the back of the Canter were in a hurry. Before she had even given them instructions, they were tossing buckets and saucepans from the lorry to each other. It was not really a big drum. That was the first thing she wanted to tell Marcus. At least not like the drum he beat so hard during his school drama club presentation at the parents and teachers day that the skin snapped. He had been so engrossed in the welcome song for the parents, he turned the drum upside down and continued keeping the beat. The parents and fellow pupils were clapping wildly, on their feet, applauding him. This was a water drum. A water tank in fact. But, first, she had to explain that it was not sitting in the air. The drum was sitting on four pillars of bricks, about three feet in the air. The pillars were hard to see because vines had grown around them and under the drum. The drum itself was a faded Sahara dust brown, thrusting upwards into a cone shape. The drum sat behind what the residents in the compound called the main house. Marcus stood beside her looking up at it. Entranced. She had to say it twice. You re not to play with the tank, Marcus. It is not a drum, before he murmured that he would not. The tank filled him with wonder, It is the biggest drum I have ever seen. Two eight-year-old boys, who soon became Marcus s best friends, came out of their houses. They wanted to help carry boxes. By the time Joy closed the door, Marcus already knew their names, the schools they went to, and in whose house they could play video games. She could see the water tank from their sitting room. In the dark, with the main house s bathroom light on, you could not tell that it was a drum without squinting. In the evening, without the veranda lights on, the drum looked like a cavernous entrance into another world. Or a giant crouched, waiting for its prey. A man at the end of a dark street. She shivered. Marcus saw the drum before he was out of the Canter truck. His mother Joy, who had been wondering how she would get him out of the shuddering lorry, now had to fight to keep him in until the driver had parked.**************Marcus was impatient. He had been born two months early. Joy was walking to Kalerwe market in the morning to buy fish when she suddenly went into labour. The contractions were so quick and intense she never made it to Mulago hospital, which was not far from the market.Marcus was the first baby born at Katonda Afayo clinic in Kalerwe. The clinic had opened its doors the day before. The woman who had held her up and rubbed her back as she pushed Marcus out almost fainted and had to be helped to a bed next to her. She was not a nurse, but had come to apply for a job as a receptionist at the clinic.**************Marcus peppered her with questions about the drum. He did not listen as she protested, But Marcus, I have never lived here. I m as new here as you are. This is our new home. Marcus wanted to know what was in the big drum. Can I play with the big drum? Why is the big drum sitting in the air? he asked.The big drum was not sitting in the air. She could answer that right away, as she directed the two young men helping them to move their furniture into their new house.The two men who had travelled in the back of the Canter were in a hurry. Before she had even given them instructions, they were tossing buckets and saucepans from the lorry to each other. It was not really a big drum. That was the first thing she wanted to tell Marcus. At least not like the drum he beat so hard during his school drama club presentation at the parents and teachers day that the skin snapped. He had been so engrossed in the welcome song for the parents, he turned the drum upside down and continued keeping the beat. The parents and fellow pupils were clapping wildly, on their feet, applauding him. This was a water drum. A water tank in fact. But, first, she had to explain that it was not sitting in the air. The drum was sitting on four pillars of bricks, about three feet in the air. The pillars were hard to see because vines had grown around them and under the drum. The drum itself was a faded Sahara dust brown, thrusting upwards into a cone shape. The drum sat behind what the residents in the compound called the main house. Marcus stood beside her looking up at it. Entranced. She had to say it twice. You re not to play with the tank, Marcus. It is not a drum, before he murmured that he would not. The tank filled him with wonder, It is the biggest drum I have ever seen. Two eight-year-old boys, who soon became Marcus s best friends, came out of their houses. They wanted to help carry boxes. By the time Joy closed the door, Marcus already knew their names, the schools they went to, and in whose house they could play video games. She could see the water tank from their sitting room. In the dark, with the main house s bathroom light on, you could not tell that it was a drum without squinting. In the evening, without the veranda lights on, the drum looked like a cavernous entrance into another world. Or a giant crouched, waiting for its prey. A man at the end of a dark street. She shivered.