Rwandan manufactures are on the horns of a dilemma: Hire more workers, switch to night shift or stay exposed to peak power tariffs and incur high production costs. This even after the Rwanda Utility Regulatory Authority (Rura) slashed power tariffs by an average 31 per cent last December as part of efforts to bring relief for manufacturers. Now, textiles and garments maker Utexrwa wants further reductions in electricity tariffs. According to Utexrwa, whose current big business is making uniforms for schools and security forces, the new billing structure has pushed up their energy costs. Utexrwa, which operates two shifts in a day, was billed Rwf6.2 million ($7,381) by the Electricity Utility Corporation for April. “The flat rate of Rwf90 per kWh we used to pay was much cheaper for the mill. Our monthly bill has instead shot up by 25 per cent. We have raised our concerns with the Ministry of Trade Industry and East African Community,” said Ratesh Patel, the managing director. Utexrwa pays Rwf90/kwh as energy charge, maximum demand charge of Rwf10,469.55 ($12) per month/KVA during peak hours, Rwf5,588.41 ($6) monthly/KVA. Demand Charge - (08H01’- 16H59’) shoulder, Rwf1,891.54/KVA demand charge during off peak hours and Rwf 3125 ($3) as customer service charge. High electricity tariff Technically, the high electricity tariff during peak hours is meant to encourage heavy industrial users to operate during the night or off-peak hours, when power is more affordable. But industrialists fear hiring additional workers for the night shift would escalate their labour costs. Utexrwa, which makes use of the night shift, employs 500 workers. This means 250 work during day time while the rest in the night. “The company spends on average $200 per person monthly,” said Patel. Trade, Industry and East African Community Affairs Minister Francois Kanimba said he has received several complaints about the increase in power bills after the new tariff was announced. READ: Rwanda needs $70m to stem power losses As a result, the ministry has convened a meeting with the manufacturers, Rwanda Energy Group and energy officials at the Ministry of Infrastructure.“The meeting, to take place on June 20, will inform us about what next,” said Mr Kanimba. Rwanda Private Sector Federation chairman Benjamin Gasamagera said most manufacturers have not invested in infrastructure like security, lighting and other facilities needed for working at night. “It is something that cannot be done overnight. There are a lot of things to do before we start running factories at night,” he said. Waived taxes Meanwhile, Mr Kanimba said the government waived taxes on fabrics imported from outside the region after, Utexrwa failed to meet the demands of the domestic market. The miller has a capacity of one million metres of fabric per year but is operating at only 25 per cent. Rwanda currently needs over 72 million metres per annum to dress up the population, according to official figures. READ: Rwanda moves to promote local textile factories Data from the Rwanda Development Board shows that the country spends $57 million annually on importing both used and new textile products.The tax waiver applies to materials that are not available in the East African Community market. READ: Competition stifling Rwanda’s only textile factory   Manufacturing companies in the region grappling to stay afloat. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.