Ben Woodhams was born in the United kingdom in 1970 and his family moved to Kenya three years later when his father was appointed head of the electrical engineering department at the Mombasa Polytechnic. Woodhams spent his early life in Mombasa; leaving Kenya for the United Kingdom in 1987 for further studies wasn t something then 17-year old Woodhams relished. Having spent most of his childhood years at the Kenyan Coast, he had fallen in love with the country and could not imagine living anywhere else. He recalls spending his days playing on the sandy beaches all his free time. So when an opportunity to return to East Africa as the Knight Frank Tanzania general manager presented itself in 1999, he didn t think twice. He packed his bags and moved to Dar es Salaam. He would later join the Knight Frank office in Nairobi in 2003 where he has been the managing director ever since. Woodhams, a father of three girls, has over 20 years experience in real estate consultancy, 18 of which have been with Knight Frank. Prior to joining Knight Frank, he worked in London for five years. He studied Land Economics at Oxford Brookes University, after which he did his Letters in London and qualified as a chartered surveyor. ---------------------------- You have spent most of your life in Kenya. Tell us about that. I spent my formative years from the ages of three to 17 in Mombasa, where my father was the head of the electrical engineering department at the Mombasa Polytechnic (now Pwani University). I left Kenya when I was 17 years old for the United Kingdom, where I completed my education. I worked in London for five years after graduation before I returned to East Africa 1999 to run the Knight Frank office in Tanzania. I moved to Nairobi in 2003, and I have been running the Knight Frank office since then. You have worked in Kenya for 14 years now, how can you compare 2003 and now, in relation to the property market? Kenya s economy has grown tremendously over the period and through that growth, the property sector has flourished. Retail and office space are some of the areas where we have witnessed major changes. There has been a rise in the number of shopping malls and the emergence of a shopping culture where people don t just go to shopping centres to shop but also for entertainment. How do you compare Nairobi s property market with other African cities? Ben Woodhams was born in the United kingdom in 1970 and his family moved to Kenya three years later when his father was appointed head of the electrical engineering department at the Mombasa Polytechnic.Woodhams spent his early life in Mombasa; leaving Kenya for the United Kingdom in 1987 for further studies wasn t something then 17-year old Woodhams relished. Having spent most of his childhood years at the Kenyan Coast, he had fallen in love with the country and could not imagine living anywhere else. He recalls spending his days playing on the sandy beaches all his free time.So when an opportunity to return to East Africa as the Knight Frank Tanzania general manager presented itself in 1999, he didn t think twice. He packed his bags and moved to Dar es Salaam. He would later join the Knight Frank office in Nairobi in 2003 where he has been the managing director ever since.Woodhams, a father of three girls, has over 20 years experience in real estate consultancy, 18 of which have been with Knight Frank. Prior to joining Knight Frank, he worked in London for five years. He studied Land Economics at Oxford Brookes University, after which he did his Letters in London and qualified as a chartered surveyor.----------------------------You have spent most of your life in Kenya. Tell us about that.I spent my formative years from the ages of three to 17 in Mombasa, where my father was the head of the electrical engineering department at the Mombasa Polytechnic (now Pwani University). I left Kenya when I was 17 years old for the United Kingdom, where I completed my education. I worked in London for five years after graduation before I returned to East Africa 1999 to run the Knight Frank office in Tanzania. I moved to Nairobi in 2003, and I have been running the Knight Frank office since then.You have worked in Kenya for 14 years now, how can you compare 2003 and now, in relation to the property market?Kenya s economy has grown tremendously over the period and through that growth, the property sector has flourished. Retail and office space are some of the areas where we have witnessed major changes.There has been a rise in the number of shopping malls and the emergence of a shopping culture where people don t just go to shopping centres to shop but also for entertainment.How do you compare Nairobi s property market with other African cities?