Rwanda health insurance underwriters are in a bind amid flat premiums and rising tariffs by service providers especially in private clinics and hospitals, adding to the burdens of a sector already weighed down by fraud and losses. Tariffs charged by polyclinics have tripled since February, while rates at smaller clinics have doubled, leaving medical underwriters on the edge since they cannot adjust premiums until the running contracts are over. There has not been any improvement, things keep getting worse, said Dr Blaise Uhagaze, the executive secretary of the Private Insurers Association. Tariffs have significantly increased, in some cases three times and in others doubled. The higher you go in treatment the higher the costs, and it s not even easy to increase premiums since many have ongoing contracts with clients. General clinics have raised their charges by 15 per cent. Mr Uhagaze says it will take time to adjust to the situation as salaries are also not growing yet medical costs keep rising. The only option underwriters have is to increase premiums. READ: Rwanda insurers losing to rising fraud, low premiums He said consultation alone in a polyclinic has increased from Rwf5,849 ($7) to Rwf9,468 ($11) while charges for other medical procedures and treatments have increased by a higher margin. Late last year, the Cabinet approved an upward adjustment of the portion of treatment bills to be settled by the client in public health facilities, where patients subscribing to RAMA, a scheme managed by the Rwanda Social Security Board (RSSB), were to pay 25 per cent of the bill, while those subscribing to schemes offered by private insurance companies will pay 15 per cent. READ: Rwanda employers in panic as govt raises cost of health insurance Fraud is one of the biggest challenges. Pharmacies collude with patients to defraud insurance companies, Mr Uhagaze added. A report compiled by KPMG indicated that fraud adds an extra 18 per cent to premiums in the region, while 5 per cent is the extra cost fraud adds to premiums in Rwanda. The pain caused by the volatilities in the insurance industry is not limited to private players. RSSB recently came up with a directive restricting RAMA insurance plan subscribers from going to private hospitals unless they are referred by a government hospital, a move industry observers say is intended to minimize medical costs spent by RSSB. READ: RAMA insurance users now limited on accessing private hospitals Rwanda health insurance underwriters are in a bind amid flat premiums and rising tariffs by service providers especially in private clinics and hospitals, adding to the burdens of a sector already weighed down by fraud and losses.Tariffs charged by polyclinics have tripled since February, while rates at smaller clinics have doubled, leaving medical underwriters on the edge since they cannot adjust premiums until the running contracts are over. There has not been any improvement, things keep getting worse, said Dr Blaise Uhagaze, the executive secretary of the Private Insurers Association. Tariffs have significantly increased, in some cases three times and in others doubled. The higher you go in treatment the higher the costs, and it s not even easy to increase premiums since many have ongoing contracts with clients. General clinics have raised their charges by 15 per cent.Mr Uhagaze says it will take time to adjust to the situation as salaries are also not growing yet medical costs keep rising. The only option underwriters have is to increase premiums. READ: Rwanda insurers losing to rising fraud, low premiumsHe said consultation alone in a polyclinic has increased from Rwf5,849 ($7) to Rwf9,468 ($11) while charges for other medical procedures and treatments have increased by a higher margin.Late last year, the Cabinet approved an upward adjustment of the portion of treatment bills to be settled by the client in public health facilities, where patients subscribing to RAMA, a scheme managed by the Rwanda Social Security Board (RSSB), were to pay 25 per cent of the bill, while those subscribing to schemes offered by private insurance companies will pay 15 per cent. READ: Rwanda employers in panic as govt raises cost of health insurance Fraud is one of the biggest challenges. Pharmacies collude with patients to defraud insurance companies, Mr Uhagaze added.A report compiled by KPMG indicated that fraud adds an extra 18 per cent to premiums in the region, while 5 per cent is the extra cost fraud adds to premiums in Rwanda.The pain caused by the volatilities in the insurance industry is not limited to private players.RSSB recently came up with a directive restricting RAMA insurance plan subscribers from going to private hospitals unless they are referred by a government hospital, a move industry observers say is intended to minimize medical costs spent by RSSB. READ: RAMA insurance users now limited on accessing private hospitals