South Africa's recession took economists by surprise, but for clothing shop owner Hans Setlhabi the gloomy numbers confirmed what he already knew - chronic unemployment and lofty inflation have shattered consumer confidence. "I wasn't surprised to hear about the recession. I saw that the economy was going down last year," said 38-year old Setlhabi, staring at shelves piled high with clothes offered at discount prices. "People don't have money and for those who come in, they buy cheaper items and not the expensive ones." South Africa sank into recession for the first time in eight years in the first quarter, hit by weakness in consumer sectors such as wholesale, retail and accommodation. The economic turmoil is piling pressure on President Jacob Zuma, who faces calls to step down from within the ruling African National Congress (ANC) as a string of corruption scandals, party infighting and sky-high unemployment erode public support ahead of elections in 2019. The persistence of poverty and joblessness 23 years after the end of apartheid is also stoking anger, with unrest dubbed "service delivery protests" - taking place frequently. READ: Zuma warns ANC officials over bid to remove him Unemployment is at a 14-year high of 27.7 per cent. The government's response to the gradually building economic crisis is due to be laid out later this week when Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba briefs the media how he will address the economic challenges. Economists had expected the economy to expand, helped by a recovery in mining and agriculture, but surprise contractions in the rest of the economy led it to shrink. Rising unemployment, high interest rates and a drop in purchasing power after a drought last year have all driven consumer prices up and hammered consumer confidence. "I used to go into a shop and fill a trolley with groceries to last my family a month but that's not happening anymore," said 68-year old Mabule Modiba, a retired salesman who recently started driving a taxi to make ends meet. "I thought I was done working, but now I also have to look after my grandchildren because my kids don't have jobs." South Africa's inflation rose to 7 per cent early 2016, breaching the central bank's target of 3-6 per cent, but has now eased to 5.3 per cent as food price rises slow. The Treasury has said the recession introduced "significant downward bias" to this year's growth estimate of 1.3 per cent, up from 0.3 per cent in 2016. It means growth is more likely to fall than rise. South Africa's recession took economists by surprise, but for clothing shop owner Hans Setlhabi the gloomy numbers confirmed what he already knew - chronic unemployment and lofty inflation have shattered consumer confidence."I wasn't surprised to hear about the recession. I saw that the economy was going down last year," said 38-year old Setlhabi, staring at shelves piled high with clothes offered at discount prices."People don't have money and for those who come in, they buy cheaper items and not the expensive ones."South Africa sank into recession for the first time in eight years in the first quarter, hit by weakness in consumer sectors such as wholesale, retail and accommodation.The economic turmoil is piling pressure on President Jacob Zuma, who faces calls to step down from within the ruling African National Congress (ANC) as a string of corruption scandals, party infighting and sky-high unemployment erode public support ahead of elections in 2019.The persistence of poverty and joblessness 23 years after the end of apartheid is also stoking anger, with unrest dubbed "service delivery protests" - taking place frequently.READ: Zuma warns ANC officials over bid to remove himUnemployment is at a 14-year high of 27.7 per cent.The government's response to the gradually building economic crisis is due to be laid out later this week when Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba briefs the media how he will address the economic challenges.Economists had expected the economy to expand, helped by a recovery in mining and agriculture, but surprise contractions in the rest of the economy led it to shrink.Rising unemployment, high interest rates and a drop in purchasing power after a drought last year have all driven consumer prices up and hammered consumer confidence."I used to go into a shop and fill a trolley with groceries to last my family a month but that's not happening anymore," said 68-year old Mabule Modiba, a retired salesman who recently started driving a taxi to make ends meet."I thought I was done working, but now I also have to look after my grandchildren because my kids don't have jobs."South Africa's inflation rose to 7 per cent early 2016, breaching the central bank's target of 3-6 per cent, but has now eased to 5.3 per cent as food price rises slow.The Treasury has said the recession introduced "significant downward bias" to this year's growth estimate of 1.3 per cent, up from 0.3 per cent in 2016. It means growth is more likely to fall than rise.