The launch of the $3.25 billion standard gauge railway at the Mombasa terminus on May 31 by President Uhuru Kenyatta marked the realisation of an ambitious infrastructure development plan by the government of Kenya to replace the 118-year-old Kenya-Uganda Railway. When finally extended to Malaba — the border with Uganda — the SGR is expected to change the way the region and its hinterland moves cargo and people by offering a convenient, relatively faster and cheaper option. President Kenyatta flagged off the first passenger train at 11am (0800 GMT) and rode it to Nairobi with about 1,300 other passengers, among them Deputy President William Ruto, Chinese State Councillor Wang Yong, government officials and business people. The ride was free. The passenger train, launched on the eve of Madaraka Day — the day Kenya attained internal self-rule — was aptly named Madaraka Express. Talking to the media onboard the train, the president termed the train “a true beginning of our transformation.” Among the benefits he listed were ancillary activities expected to develop as a result of the line. He also spoke of special economic zones to be set up along the line in places such as Voi, Athi River and Naivasha. There are four main stations between Mombasa and Nairobi — Mariakani, Voi, Mtito Andei and Athi River. The launch of the passenger train has been hailed as a historic event since it is the first major project undertaken by the government in 50 years. Accessibility For travellers eager to use the train, Kenya Railways, the local component of the management, has yet to clarify how they will conveniently access the termini both in Nairobi and Mombasa. In Nairobi, the terminus is 15km from the central business district on the busy Mombasa Road and next to the Syokimau Railway Station, the end point of the metre gauge intracity commuter line. Passengers hoping to use the SGR to Mombasa cannot yet use the Nairobi commuter train to access the Nairobi SGR terminus, since KR has yet to announce synchronised services between the intracity service and the SGR. The option for travellers is to incur an extra cost through taking a public service vehicle or driving to the terminus, a minimum of 30 minutes with moderate traffic from the CBD. It is worse in Mombasa, where the terminus is off the old Nairobi Highway at Miritini, a 20-minute drive from the turn-off. The access road is currently only done a few metres to the first security check into the terminus. From the terminus to the CBD, it can take up to two and a half hours, what with traffic. Rates and hospitality According to Kenya Railways, passengers can purchase train tickets at the ticketing offices at the Nairobi and Mombasa termini. Unless these can be made available online, which some buses do, travellers both in Nairobi and Mombasa will have to risk and purchase tickets on the day of travel. The president announced a promotional one way economy class ticket of Ksh700 ($7), threatening to eat into the passenger market of buses, which charge between Ksh1,100 ($11) and Ksh2,800 ($28). Normal train fare published by KR was Ksh900 ($9). First class tickets (business) is Ksh3,000 ($30) one way. While a bus carries a maximum of 42 passengers, 72 business travellers on the train will share the carriage at full capacity, with the option of using the sleeper carriage for naps. Although in buses all seats can be reclined, on the train passengers can stand and walk around the entire duration of the five-hour journey. Every traveller on business coach, unlike in the economy class, will have the use of power port for charging their communication devices. The train has onboard hospitality service provided at the dining carriage at your own convenience throughout the trip. This service is yet to be provided as it still at the tendering stage. The biggest convenience is the toilet facility. Every carriage has one unisex toilet. Both the business and economy coaches have sufficient overhead luggage carriers that can fit a small suitcase weighing 10 kilogrammes (the type approved for onboard flights). Bags bigger than this will be stored in the luggage coach. No littering the SGR line The one thing that the passenger train trumps buses is that all cabins are air conditioned. The service crew duly informs passengers that there is no opening of windows. Looked at from the environmental point of view, the railway line will not be littered with plastic bottles and other garbage as is the case on the Nairobi-Mombasa Highway. Earlier on May 30, President Uhuru accompanied by Chinese officials flagged off the SGR cargo train at the new container terminal at the port in Mombasa, where the new SGR line begins. The cargo train was carrying 24 containers destined for Nairobi.   Although the SGR terminates in Nairobi for now, the president in his speech at the port thanked the Chinese government for extending another loan of $3.6 billion in a deal signed during the president’s recent visit to China — to extend the railway to Naivasha and Kisumu. There are plans to finally connect with Uganda through Malaba at the common border with Uganda. The latter part of the SGR project will realise East African Community partner states’ plan to modernise both the Northern and Central corridors, and reduce the cost of doing business by making it cheaper, faster and more convenient to move goods and people within the community and beyond.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.