After publicly advocating value addition by announcing a ban on export of Uganda s iron ore in 2013, President Yoweri Museveni seems to have caved in to pressure from one mineral dealer and backtracked on the position. Details of what influenced President Museveni s change of heart are not known, but an 18-month investigation by extractive industry watchdog Global Witness reveals that the dealer, Moses Kamuntu, met the president and gained permission to continue exporting the ore. Iron ore export is limited to my company. Don t ask me how I can do that. That is personal, the Global Witness report titled Undermined, quotes Mr Kamuntu as saying. The report also reveals that it is almost impossible to do business in Uganda s mining sector without paying bribes or drawing support from high-level political connections. Mr Kamuntu had two location licences for small-scale miners, but not international exports. He also held two other exploration licences. Directorate of Geological Survey and Mines According to Undermined, there is documentary evidence showing that Mr Kamuntu s operations were well known to the Directorate of Geological Survey and Mines, which was effectively rendered powerless when President Museveni gave the dealer written permission to proceed. Why don t you ask the president? Mines Commissioner Edwards Katto told The EastAfrican when contacted. I cannot comment on a presidential directive. Since 2014, President Museveni has repeated the directive on international mineral wealth at conferences held in Uganda banning iron ore exports. The president s directive revoked several iron ore export permits. The president s position was that the ore should be locally processed to feed the steel industry which relies on imported iron rolls. He also proposed that Uganda import coal from Mozambique to smelt the ore because the country does not have enough energy locally to do so. Coal from Mozambique But government officials say importing coal from Mozambique to smelt iron ore does not make economic sense because of the distance involved, and that hidden costs will raise the prices of steel products. After publicly advocating value addition by announcing a ban on export of Uganda s iron ore in 2013, President Yoweri Museveni seems to have caved in to pressure from one mineral dealer and backtracked on the position. Details of what influenced President Museveni s change of heart are not known, but an 18-month investigation by extractive industry watchdog Global Witness reveals that the dealer, Moses Kamuntu, met the president and gained permission to continue exporting the ore. Iron ore export is limited to my company. Don t ask me how I can do that. That is personal, the Global Witness report titled Undermined, quotes Mr Kamuntu as saying. The report also reveals that it is almost impossible to do business in Uganda s mining sector without paying bribes or drawing support from high-level political connections. Mr Kamuntu had two location licences for small-scale miners, but not international exports.He also held two other exploration licences. Directorate of Geological Survey and MinesAccording to Undermined, there is documentary evidence showing that Mr Kamuntu s operations were well known to the Directorate of Geological Survey and Mines, which was effectively rendered powerless when President Museveni gave the dealer written permission to proceed. Why don t you ask the president? Mines Commissioner Edwards Katto told The EastAfrican when contacted. I cannot comment on a presidential directive. Since 2014, President Museveni has repeated the directive on international mineral wealth at conferences held in Uganda banning iron ore exports. The president s directive revoked several iron ore export permits. The president s position was that the ore should be locally processed to feed the steel industry which relies on imported iron rolls. He also proposed that Uganda import coal from Mozambique to smelt the ore because the country does not have enough energy locally to do so.Coal from MozambiqueBut government officials say importing coal from Mozambique to smelt iron ore does not make economic sense because of the distance involved, and that hidden costs will raise the prices of steel products.