Nation rebuilding, the aftermath of the 1994 genocide against the Tutsi, Rwanda’s pride and beauty are the topics by which Rwandan visual artists are known.Indeed, rarely do they bring out quite social issues that would spark public debate. But Jean Baptiste Rukundo is rewriting the rulebook with his works. Nowhere is Rukundo’s work as vivid on a debate-rousing topic as his latest exhibition dubbed Visual Field, which kicked off on June 3. Visual Field is made up of over 50 paintings, articulately composed. Among his paintings at Concept Art Studio in Kacyiru, Kigali, is “Mukorogo” — a collection inspired through Rukundo’s experience around girls and women. According to Rukundo, women and girls have lost their self-esteem and pride for their original natural form by use of bleaching products. Mukorogo means a mixture of various skin ointments, whose end objective is skin lightening. Using portraits, the works depict faces of women, but in a rather odd dimension.   To Rukundo, girls and women are better off without these skin bleaching cosmetics. “The skin complexions we see these days are quite indescribable, which explains the vast colours,” he explained. The faces are a complexion of various colour tones — from yellow and green, dark blue and light tones. This shows the result of bleaching. READ: One woman’s fight against skin colour stigma A former student of Nyundo Art School, the 27-year old has been practising art since 2010, when he joined Ivuka Art centre. He has worked with Niyo Art Centre, and administered art lessons at Kigali’s Hope Kids Academy from 2013 to 2014 before embarking on a solo career. An approach of mixed media art form is what he works with as he depicts his works. He uses acrylics, oil and water paints on canvas. He further incorporates recycled material from paper and Ikitenge clothing to emerge with distinctive works to pass on his message. Though Rukundo has taken part in over eight joint exhibitions before, Visual Field is his first solo exhibition. His use of the Ikitenge fabrics, complement the portraits, making them lively, and relatable to Africa, while in some of the portraits he uses messages on paper to add emphasis to his work. READ: Legendary Rwandan artist’s tribute to small formats Messages such as “smooth skin,” “lightening solution,” and “skin protection” reflect information uses on skin beauty products. The exhibition, which runs till June 30, also touches other themes. For example, Aho Ntuye, a 30cm by 40 cm piece depicts a compacted homestead. Like in a slum, the artist takes one into this ambience of life, but only depicting houses. Other paintings depict social centres like the market place and various social activities from a typical African society. Throughout this collection, women are the most represented figures, as they are society’s core icons according to the artist. Crista Uwase, a female artist, who specialises in making collage with the use of recycled paper, has addressed a similar topic through her ongoing series of works. Her collection speaks of Black African pride among women. However, there are no price tags on these paintings. To Rukundo, the message needs to be conveyed first the the work rated. He prefers negotiating directly with the admirer to also get their thought of this collection. READ: In Kigali, art to change lives   For it is among the 2,000-plus paintings and drawings in the storerooms, that inexpensive treasures can be found. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.