A seven-storey building has sunk into the foundation in Embakasi, a residential estate east of Nairobi's central business district. The incident occured Monday night in Kware Pipeline Embakasi area, according to Kenya Police. Most families were evacuated but police say some people may be trapped. According to the Embakasi police boss, 121 people have been accounted for. Rescue efforts are under way. Rescue efforts are under way. PHOTO | OUMA WANZALA | NATION MEDIA GROUP Joas Nemati, a resident, told the Nation that at 1pm on Monday workers and the caretaker of the building repaired a huge crack on one of the staircases and assured them the house was intact. But at 6pm, Mr Nemati said, his wife called him saying tenants had been ordered to leave immediately as the building was coming down. Police arrived at the scene and assisted in evacuating residents, but a woman and her three children refused to leave. The whereabouts of the woman and the children remain unknown. The number of missing occupants is yet to be confirmed, the Kenya Red Cross said on its Twitter feed. The country has witnessed similar tragedies in the past. Last year, nearly 50 people died when a building collapsed in heavy rains in Nairobi. A seven-storey building has sunk into the foundation in Embakasi, a residential estate east of Nairobi's central business district. The incident occured Monday night in Kware Pipeline Embakasi area, according to Kenya Police.Most families were evacuated but police say some people may be trapped.According to the Embakasi police boss, 121 people have been accounted for.Rescue efforts are under way.Rescue efforts are under way. PHOTO | OUMA WANZALA | NATION MEDIA GROUPJoas Nemati, a resident, told the Nation that at 1pm on Monday workers and the caretaker of the building repaired a huge crack on one of the staircases and assured them the house was intact.But at 6pm, Mr Nemati said, his wife called him saying tenants had been ordered to leave immediately as the building was coming down.Police arrived at the scene and assisted in evacuating residents, but a woman and her three children refused to leave.The whereabouts of the woman and the children remain unknown.The number of missing occupants is yet to be confirmed, the Kenya Red Cross said on its Twitter feed. The country has witnessed similar tragedies in the past. Last year, nearly 50 people died when a building collapsed in heavy rains in Nairobi.