The Central Bank is switching to an inflation targeting monetary policy regime to keep the spiralling prices of goods and services in check. The country has been using a monetary targeting framework and, in a few cases, a fixed exchange rate framework. National Bank of Rwanda governor, John Rwangombwa says the inflation targeting is a modern policy framework. As the economy grows and transforms, the current framework of monetary aggregate we are using becomes obsolete. Under an inflation targeting framework, emphasis is on sending a clear message about the stance of monetary policy and influencing inflationary expectations through careful communication by the central bank to the public and the markets. As it is, Mr Rwangombwa is working on modernising the monetary policy frameworks, to help anchor inflation expectations in the interim before the East African Currency Union is established. He did not, though, explain whether the central bank will implement hybrid monetary policy frameworks, which would retain some elements of monetary targeting along with elements of inflation targeting. While the central bank projects inflation to remain in single digit, low food production, a spike in global oil prices, increase in tariffs for some products, and increase in prices of soft drinks produced by Bralirwa remain a threat. READ: Why Bralirwa s soft drinks will cost more Data from National Institute of Statistics shows Rwanda s Consumer Price Index (CPI), a main gauge of inflation was 7.3 per cent year on year in April from 7.7 per cent in March. In April 2017, Food and non-alcoholic beverages, housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels and transport rose by 15.8 per cent, 2.2 per cent and 6.1 per cent respectively, the statistics body reported. READ: Rwanda's January inflation at 7.4pc The country adjusted its pump prices upwards byRwf22 ($0.026) for each litre of petrol and Rwf18 ($0.021 ) for diesel, from Rwf970 ($1.16), Rwf932 ($1.12). Food supply Trading data from East Africa Commodity Exchange shows the national average retail price for a 100kg bag of maize has risen from Rwf20,000 ($24) early this year to Rwf35,875 ($42.6). Rwanda is, however, entering a rainy season, with expectations of improved food supply and lower prices in coming months. The Central Bank is switching to an inflation targeting monetary policy regime to keep the spiralling prices of goods and services in check.The country has been using a monetary targeting framework and, in a few cases, a fixed exchange rate framework.National Bank of Rwanda governor, John Rwangombwa says the inflation targeting is a modern policy framework. As the economy grows and transforms, the current framework of monetary aggregate we are using becomes obsolete.Under an inflation targeting framework, emphasis is on sending a clear message about the stance of monetary policy and influencing inflationary expectations through careful communication by the central bank to the public and the markets. As it is, Mr Rwangombwa is working on modernising the monetary policy frameworks, to help anchor inflation expectations in the interim before the East African Currency Union is established. He did not, though, explain whether the central bank will implement hybrid monetary policy frameworks, which would retain some elements of monetary targeting along with elements of inflation targeting.While the central bank projects inflation to remain in single digit, low food production, a spike in global oil prices, increase in tariffs for some products, and increase in prices of soft drinks produced by Bralirwa remain a threat.READ: Why Bralirwa s soft drinks will cost moreData from National Institute of Statistics shows Rwanda s Consumer Price Index (CPI), a main gauge of inflation was 7.3 per cent year on year in April from 7.7 per cent in March. In April 2017, Food and non-alcoholic beverages, housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels and transport rose by 15.8 per cent, 2.2 per cent and 6.1 per cent respectively, the statistics body reported.READ: Rwanda's January inflation at 7.4pcThe country adjusted its pump prices upwards byRwf22 ($0.026) for each litre of petrol and Rwf18 ($0.021 ) for diesel, from Rwf970 ($1.16), Rwf932 ($1.12).Food supplyTrading data from East Africa Commodity Exchange shows the national average retail price for a 100kg bag of maize has risen from Rwf20,000 ($24) early this year to Rwf35,875 ($42.6). Rwanda is, however, entering a rainy season, with expectations of improved food supply and lower prices in coming months.