Tanzania plans to increase spending by 7.3 per cent to $14.21 billion in the coming financial year, with infrastructure and industrialisation to be prioritised. The country intends to collect more revenue by sealing tax loopholes. We plan to increase revenue, curb leakages of government resources, control expenditure and enforce public procurement legislation, Finance Minister Dr Philip Mpango said on Thursday, while presenting the 2017/18 budget in parliament. Tax revenue is estimated at 14.2 per cent of gross domestic product in 2017/18, up from an estimated 13.3 per cent in 2016/17. Development spending will increase marginally to $5.8 billion, accounting for 40 per cent of the budget. Dr Mpango also said the country would borrow $2.76 billion from domestic sources and expects $712 million in external loans and grants. We are in the final stage of negotiations with lenders and expect to receive $500 million later this month. We also plan to narrow the budget deficit to 3.8 per cent of GDP in 2017/18 from 4.5 per cent in 2016/17, Dr Mpango said. Tanzania expects its economy to grow at 7.1 per cent in 2017, up from 7.0 per cent in 2016. It aims to contain inflation at 5 to 8 per cent range, he added. Pro-business budget The 2017/18 budget has been seen as progressive and pro-business. It was lauded for introducing reforms that removed or reduced taxes in several sectors. Some of the beneficiaries are farmers, motorists, local manufacturers of drinks and first time investors in vehicle assembly where corporate tax has been reduced from 30 to 10 per cent in first five years of operation. READ: Foreign firms hit by tax demands rethink Tanzanian expansion Dr Mpango also introduced a clearing fee of one per cent of the value of minerals that will be paid in clearing houses before export. The clearing houses are based at international airports, mining areas and other areas where the minerals will be verified and issued export permits. He also introduced withholding tax of 5 per cent of the total market value of minerals to all small miners. The government would not allow direct exportation of minerals from the mines and would instead establish clearing houses. The objective of a withholding tax is to ensure better collection of revenue from the mineral sector, he said. READ: Tanzania to introduce clearing fee for mineral exports Edible oils, textiles, leather and pharmaceutical businesses were also winners as they got a Value Added Tax exemption on capital goods so as to reduce procurement and importation costs on machines and plants used in production. Tanzania plans to increase spending by 7.3 per cent to $14.21 billion in the coming financial year, with infrastructure and industrialisation to be prioritised.The country intends to collect more revenue by sealing tax loopholes. We plan to increase revenue, curb leakages of government resources, control expenditure and enforce public procurement legislation, Finance Minister Dr Philip Mpango said on Thursday, while presenting the 2017/18 budget in parliament.Tax revenue is estimated at 14.2 per cent of gross domestic product in 2017/18, up from an estimated 13.3 per cent in 2016/17. Development spending will increase marginally to $5.8 billion, accounting for 40 per cent of the budget.Dr Mpango also said the country would borrow $2.76 billion from domestic sources and expects $712 million in external loans and grants. We are in the final stage of negotiations with lenders and expect to receive $500 million later this month. We also plan to narrow the budget deficit to 3.8 per cent of GDP in 2017/18 from 4.5 per cent in 2016/17, Dr Mpango said.Tanzania expects its economy to grow at 7.1 per cent in 2017, up from 7.0 per cent in 2016. It aims to contain inflation at 5 to 8 per cent range, he added.Pro-business budgetThe 2017/18 budget has been seen as progressive and pro-business. It was lauded for introducing reforms that removed or reduced taxes in several sectors. Some of the beneficiaries are farmers, motorists, local manufacturers of drinks and first time investors in vehicle assembly where corporate tax has been reduced from 30 to 10 per cent in first five years of operation.READ: Foreign firms hit by tax demands rethink Tanzanian expansionDr Mpango also introduced a clearing fee of one per cent of the value of minerals that will be paid in clearing houses before export. The clearing houses are based at international airports, mining areas and other areas where the minerals will be verified and issued export permits. He also introduced withholding tax of 5 per cent of the total market value of minerals to all small miners. The government would not allow direct exportation of minerals from the mines and would instead establish clearing houses. The objective of a withholding tax is to ensure better collection of revenue from the mineral sector, he said.READ: Tanzania to introduce clearing fee for mineral exportsEdible oils, textiles, leather and pharmaceutical businesses were also winners as they got a Value Added Tax exemption on capital goods so as to reduce procurement and importation costs on machines and plants used in production.