The award is part of the WAN-IFRA’s Gender and Media Freedom strategy, being spearheaded through support from the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida)  The managing editor of the TheEastAfrican newspaper has won an international award for leadership. The world Association of Newspapers (WAN-IFRA) Wednesday named Pamella Sittoni the Women in News Editorial Leadership Award laureate for sub-Saharan Africa. Ms Pamela Sittoni, who is also the editor of Nation Media Group's International Desk was recognised alongside Karima Kamal, a columnist and contributing editor for the Egyptian daily Al Masry Al Yom. Ms Kamal was named the 2017 laureate for the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). Mrs Sittoni, accepting the award, said she was humbled by the honour. “This award is a strong confirmation that the world is taking notice of the important contribution that women leaders in the media houses are making to the development of their countries, regions and the world,” she said. “I am confident that it will inspire other women journalists, particularly the young ones, to aim for the top through diligence.” NMG chief executive Joe Muganda and Editor-in-chief Tom Mshindi congratulated Ms Sittoni. "Congratulations on the achievement of this well-deserved recognition. We are very proud of you, " Mr Muganda said.  Regional paper The EastAfrican is a weekly newspaper published by NMG and is circulated in Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda and Tanzania. Ms Kamal said the award crowned her professional journey. “The award supports those who defend the freedom of press and is also a confirmation of the importance of promoting the presence of women equally and fairly within all strata of media,” she said. The 2017 laureates will be honoured at the Women in News Summit in Durban, South Africa, on June 7. The summit is organised in association with the 2017 World News Congress and World Editors Forum, which will take place between June 7 and 9. The award is part of the WAN-IFRA’s Gender and Media Freedom strategy, being spearheaded through support from the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency. Each year, one laureate from MENA and one from Africa are named.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.