In January this year, former US president George Herbert Walker Bush Senior and his wife Barbara Bush captured the world’s attention when they were both hospitalised at the Houston Methodist Hospital suffering from different ailments. The two, who have been married for 72 years — longer than any US first couple — were being treated for pneumonia for Bush senior and bronchitis for the former first lady. He was later to be readmitted and again released from hospital in late April. “President and Mrs Bush are very pleased to be home spending time with family and friends and grateful for the outstanding care provided by his doctors and nurses,” Bush’s spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement. The 41st US president is currently living out his retirement in Kenne-bunkport, Maine, where he and his 91-year-old wife spend their summers and will be celebrating his 93rd birth on June 12. “Bush and his wife live in Houston, Texas during the winter because of the warm Texan weather which works well for both their health,” said McGrath. Presidential museum Born in June 12, 1924 in Milton, Massachusetts, Bush Sr served in various roles as a congressman, CIA director, US liaison to China and Ronald Reagan’s vice president, which are all documented at his memorial library in College Station, Texas. The $37 million memorial library hosts more than 44 million documents, paying a fine tribute to a man who dedicated his life to the service of his country. The presidential museum hosts information about the first couple’s lives and their road to the White House — ups and downs, victories and defeats and love and loss. “We have documents in here that have allowed visitors from within the country, and also from outside, to learn about World War II, view original national documents and get an inside and intimate look at the president’s homes,” one of the library guides tells a visiting crowd. The natural flow of the museum follows Bush Sr’s childhood days, with the first section showing family photos over several generations. “An imposing man of six feet, six inches. My father was probably the person who had the most influence in my life. My mother on the other hand was the guiding light in my life and led us by example,” Bush writes in one of the notes posted along side the display of his childhood photos.   Daring escape Atop the entrance of the museum is a replica of a military jet, which Bush, then a 20-year-old pilot and lieutenant in the US navy, flew as a naval aviator during World War II. His plane was hit by enemy fire during a mission over Bonin Islands but he bailed out and was rescued by a US navy ship near Chichi Jima, a tiny island south of Tokyo next to the more famous Iwo Jima. “After allowing his co-pilots to parachute out, Bush ditched his plane farther from the island, and managed to scramble on to a life raft. He was saved after US planes launched an attack at Japanese boats that were advancing, which gave him the window of opportunity to be rescued by a US submarine,” the guide tells us. A video of the rescue dated September 2, 1944 is available at the library, showing the young Bush being pulled into a navy submarine named USS Finback. “Why had I been spared and what did God have in store for me? In my own view there’s got to be some kind of destiny and I was being spared for something on earth,” Bush is said to have told the submarine crew after his rescue. Marriage and family The museum also hosts memorabilia of the president’s marriage to Barbara, with a replica of her wedding gown on display. The two got married in 1945, and celebrated 72 years of marriage in January this year. “The two met at a dance in 1941 when George Bush was 16 years old and Barbara was home from boarding school during a holiday break. They got engaged before Bush joined the navy aviation unit for an assignment in the Pacific. They married in New York when he returned from his military posting.” They have six children, two of whom followed in their father’s footsteps into politics — former President George W. Bush and the 2016 Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush. A replica of the World War II Avenger Torpedo Bomber similar to the one Bush flew as well as precise replicas of his Camp David and Air Force One offices are also on display at the museum. The museum also has photos of his family — all his six children — his pets, and his professional life after completing his studies at Yale University. The displays, sometimes through personal letters and photos, offer an in-depth look at president Bush’s life events, choices and decisions, personal thoughts on events, with letters and photos.   One of the most memorable sections is that which shows journals in which he wrote down his feelings after losing his second-born child Robin to leukaemia, in 1953, a daughter named after his wife’s late mother, barely a year after the latter died in a road accident. There is an audio kiosk, where visitors can listen to Barbara read a letter Bush wrote to his mother following the death of Robin. “It was one of the points that I was clearly broken and at a loss,” Bush writes in one of the letters. Cunning politician The section that covers his political and professional career portrays the cunning politician he came to be. In 1970, he started his diplomatic life as the US ambassador to the United Nations, a position he was appointed to by President Richard Nixon. Three years later, the Watergate scandal gripped the country, and Bush left his position, at the request of President Nixon, to head the Republican National Committee (RNC). In his letters at the museum, his thoughts on the scandal are well documented. In one instance, as chairman of the RNC in 1972, and during the Watergate scandal, he wrote to President Nixon encouraging his resignation, conveying disappointment and also offering support. “Your job reminds me of making love to a gorilla. You cannot stop until the gorilla wants to,” is a quote posted on this wall attributed to the then Democratic Party chairman Robert Straus, as he told Bush of his difficult ties in persuading President Nixon to step down. “I consider myself a very loyal Republican. But I don’t consider the bugging of the Democratic headquarters as something we should condone or cover up. I know the president will agree with me… I felt like I was lied to, but in the end civility will return. It is now my considered opinion that you should resign,” Bush would later write to Nixon. This letter too is on display. A journey into the unknown After his stint at the RNC, Bush was posted to China as the chief of the US Liaison Office. “Beijing was a challenge, a journey into the unknown,” he wrote. A year later, he was recalled by president Gerald Ford (who replaced Nixon) to take up the directorship of the CIA. The CIA was then also under fire for its role in the Watergate and Vietnam war scandal. In 1979, Bush resigned from the CIA and ran for the Republican presidential ticket but lost to Hollywood actor Ronald Reagan, who later picked him as his running mate. The two won the election and Bush started his Washington political career as vice president. He ran for president in 1989 and won. In the museum is a replica of the famous Oval Office — the president’s official office in the White House — a star attraction where visitors are allowed to take pictures in the “president’s seat.”   There is also a replica of the Situation Room, where President Bush announced the First Gulf War in 1990. These two office replicas are to scale and true to the design and colours of those found in the White House during his administration. Visitors get a feel of being in the real presidential office in Washington. One of President Bush’s most notable actions in office was the Kuwait war, which has a whole section in the museum. The displays here offer experiences of that time, complete with audio clips on combat assignments and experiences in the eight-month Kuwait-Iraq conflict. The section also has on show the military hardware that the US deployed in this war — anti-tank vehicles, of military aircraft and gunships. Bush's 'toys' Some of the exhibits are president Bush’s personal and treasured possessions including his 1947 Champion Studebaker Deluxe two-door sedan car that carried six passengers. The car was bought for him by his parents as a graduation gift, for $1,500. “It was an ultra-modern car for its day, as if reflecting George’s own forward looking state of mind. When he arrived in West Texas, George stopped at the Alibena restaurant for lunch. To celebrate his newfound freedom, he ordered a dish he had never heard of before but would grow to love — chicken fried steak,” the display on the car at the museum reads.   Also at the museum is the president’s boat christened Fidelity. A fishing fanatic, Bush purchased the 28-foot boat in 1973. He docked it in Washington later that year, when he was the chairman of the RNC. Two years later it was transported to Kennebunkport, Maine, where it ran in the Atlantic waters until its retirement in 1998. “President Bush used Fidelity often, not just for fishing and family recreation but also for diplomacy in entertaining visiting foreign heads of state,” the display atop the boat reads. Behind the library is a pond stocked with fish and the Barbara Bush Rose Garden. Here visitor are allowed to do recreational fishing, on a catch-and-release basis, in honour of the president’s love of the sport. At the entrance to his private apartment within the library and museum grounds, right in the middle of the complex, is a 12-foot and 18-foot wide monument of stallions jumping over the rubble of the Berlin Wall. The sculpture is titled “The Day the Wall Came Down.” Burial site At the end of the library complex grounds is the eventual burial site of the president and his wife. In May 2000, the remains of their daughter Robin, were reinterred here after being exhumed from her original grave in Connecticut. Apparently, the former first family requested a simple burial site, with no monuments and only white crosses as grave markers. The burial site is hidden among oak trees and ringed by an iron fence. The museum is interactive, with touch screens that show photos, audio, and videos offering anecdotes on Bush’s life.   The whole library tour takes up to three hours and tickets cost $33 for adults and half price for children. Besides his political life, the museum also shows the life and times of the 41st US president as a true Texan with a love for ranching and horses. As you leave, you are met with a photo display of Bush and his wife Barbara taking a stroll, as if walking out of the White House and back to their lives as private citizens. “To serve and to serve well is the highest fulfilment that we can know,” the photo caption reads.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.