Kenyan and Ugandan taxpayers are set to bear a bigger burden as their respective governments struggle to finance their national carriers. On Tuesday, Kenya announced a Sh77.5 billion ($750 million) financial guarantee that is now before parliament for approval. This will possibly increase its shareholding in Kenya Airways, as it seeks to push through the final phase of the airline s restructuring. The announcement came days after Uganda met representatives from aircraft maker Airbus, seeking to revive Uganda Airlines. A few days before the meeting, influential Qatari businessman Sheikh Faisal bin Qassim Al Thani had said that he would be interested in helping revive Uganda Airlines, which collapsed nearly two decades ago. Uganda s Privatisation and Investment Minister Evelyn Anite said that they were still in talks with Doha. There isn t anything concrete, but we are optimistic that Qatar will soon join us in reviving Uganda Airlines. They have a well-developed air transport sector and understand that Qatar Airways is also looking at global expansion and have already acquired a stake in other airlines. We hope this deal will come through, Ms Anite said. READ: East Africa airlines wage war against Gulf giants KQ is banking on the conversion of its $243 million debt to the Kenyan government into equity as part of its restructuring efforts that will see it fly out of the financial crisis that has dogged it over the past three years. The EastAfrican has seen the sessional paper drafted by National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich on the debt-to-equity swap offers Kenya Airways a lifeline by enabling it extend its loan repayments to 10 years. The paper was tabled in parliament last week, and shows that the preferred financial restructuring option will see all stakeholders contribute to the restructuring. According to the document, apart from Kenya converting its debt to equity, it will also provide guarantees worth Sh54.3 billion ($525 million) to cover a loan from US Exim Bank, and a further Sh25.8 billion ($250 million) to the participating local banks as a liability required to enable the airline secure future funding. READ: Eleven banks get $223m KQ shares in bailout plan Technically insolvent Mr Rotich, however, said that the government was yet to decide what loans it will swap and what kind of shareholding it would take. Once we get parliament s approval, we will decide on whether we want to increase conversion of debt to equity. If the airline s turnaround plan works, then we will just retain our shareholding as it is, Mr Rotich said. The Kenya government lent KQ Sh4.1 billion ($40 million) in 2015 to help it meet its obligations. The debt matured last year and was subject to an annualised interest rate of 10.2 per cent. Kenyan and Ugandan taxpayers are set to bear a bigger burden as their respective governments struggle to finance their national carriers. On Tuesday, Kenya announced a Sh77.5 billion ($750 million) financial guarantee that is now before parliament for approval. This will possibly increase its shareholding in Kenya Airways, as it seeks to push through the final phase of the airline s restructuring. The announcement came days after Uganda met representatives from aircraft maker Airbus, seeking to revive Uganda Airlines. A few days before the meeting, influential Qatari businessman Sheikh Faisal bin Qassim Al Thani had said that he would be interested in helping revive Uganda Airlines, which collapsed nearly two decades ago.Uganda s Privatisation and Investment Minister Evelyn Anite said that they were still in talks with Doha. There isn t anything concrete, but we are optimistic that Qatar will soon join us in reviving Uganda Airlines. They have a well-developed air transport sector and understand that Qatar Airways is also looking at global expansion and have already acquired a stake in other airlines. We hope this deal will come through, Ms Anite said.READ: East Africa airlines wage war against Gulf giantsKQ is banking on the conversion of its $243 million debt to the Kenyan government into equity as part of its restructuring efforts that will see it fly out of the financial crisis that has dogged it over the past three years.The EastAfrican has seen the sessional paper drafted by National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich on the debt-to-equity swap offers Kenya Airways a lifeline by enabling it extend its loan repayments to 10 years.The paper was tabled in parliament last week, and shows that the preferred financial restructuring option will see all stakeholders contribute to the restructuring.According to the document, apart from Kenya converting its debt to equity, it will also provide guarantees worth Sh54.3 billion ($525 million) to cover a loan from US Exim Bank, and a further Sh25.8 billion ($250 million) to the participating local banks as a liability required to enable the airline secure future funding.READ: Eleven banks get $223m KQ shares in bailout planTechnically insolventMr Rotich, however, said that the government was yet to decide what loans it will swap and what kind of shareholding it would take. Once we get parliament s approval, we will decide on whether we want to increase conversion of debt to equity. If the airline s turnaround plan works, then we will just retain our shareholding as it is, Mr Rotich said.The Kenya government lent KQ Sh4.1 billion ($40 million) in 2015 to help it meet its obligations. The debt matured last year and was subject to an annualised interest rate of 10.2 per cent.