Reducing industrial electricity tariffs by 50 per cent would make Rwanda manufacturing competitive but first, the Cabinet has to make the decision. This was suggested at a meeting of manufacturers and government officials to assess the impact of the revision of power tariffs which was done in December 2016. In attendance were State Minister for Energy, Water and Sanitation Germaine Kamayirese, Permanent Secretary Ministry of Trade, Industry and East African Community Rosemary Mbabazi and officials from Rwanda Energy Group. “Electricity tariffs are not static. They change per situation,” Kamayirese said, adding that the concerns of the manufacturers will be tabled before Cabinet. READ: Rwandan manufacturers face dilemma over costs The government is currently promoting the “Made in Rwanda “campaign to boost domestic production and stimulate local consumption by encouraging growth of industries that produce high quality goods for domestic use and export. READ: A lifeline power tariff for Rwanda’s poor homes The aim is to narrow the current account deficit, help consolidate private sector domestic activities, create jobs and boost economic growth. ImplicationsReducing the cost of power for manufacturers would mean government increases the monthly subsidies from the current Rwf10 billion ($11.9 million) annually. The Electricity Utility Corporation Ltd managing director Jean Claude Kalisa said the subsidies have helped bring down the power costs from $0.27 per kilowatt hour the utility company buys from independent power producers to $0.11 for manufacturers. READ: Rwanda lures investors with power cost cut The country still depends on thermal power generators to produce emergency power during peak hours which expensive. READ: Rwanda begins on 2.6MW Hydro power station The manufacturers insist the sacrifice is worth as high power costs make locally manufactured products not attract adequate demand thus hindering growth of micro, small and medium enterprises. The manufacturers insist plastics, steel, textile, cement industries have not benefiting from the revised tariffs which dropped by an average of 31 per cent for industrialist. READ: ARM Cement to dispose of fertiliser factory   RICA’s main responsibilities would be to carry out inspection for quality for products Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.