Ben Woodhams was born in the United kingdom in 1970 and his family moved to Kenya three years later when his father was appointed head of the electrical engineering department at the Mombasa Polytechnic. Woodhams spent his early life in Mombasa; leaving Kenya for the United Kingdom in 1987 for further studies wasn’t something then 17-year old Woodhams relished. Having spent most of his childhood years at the Kenyan Coast, he had fallen in love with the country and could not imagine living anywhere else. He recalls spending his days playing on the sandy beaches all his free time. So when an opportunity to return to East Africa as the Knight Frank Tanzania general manager presented itself in 1999, he didn’t think twice. He packed his bags and moved to Dar es Salaam. He would later join the Knight Frank office in Nairobi in 2003 where he has been the managing director ever since. Woodhams, a father of three girls, has over 20 years’ experience in real estate consultancy, 18 of which have been with Knight Frank. Prior to joining Knight Frank, he worked in London for five years. He studied Land Economics at Oxford Brookes University, after which he did his Letters in London and qualified as a chartered surveyor. ---------------------------- You have spent most of your life in Kenya. Tell us about that. I spent my formative years from the ages of three to 17 in Mombasa, where my father was the head of the electrical engineering department at the Mombasa Polytechnic (now Pwani University). I left Kenya when I was 17 years old for the United Kingdom, where I completed my education. I worked in London for five years after graduation before I returned to East Africa 1999 to run the Knight Frank office in Tanzania. I moved to Nairobi in 2003, and I have been running the Knight Frank office since then. You have worked in Kenya for 14 years now, how can you compare 2003 and now, in relation to the property market? Kenya’s economy has grown tremendously over the period and through that growth, the property sector has flourished. Retail and office space are some of the areas where we have witnessed major changes. There has been a rise in the number of shopping malls and the emergence of a shopping culture where people don’t just go to shopping centres to shop but also for entertainment. How do you compare Nairobi’s property market with other African cities? It is interesting. There are other African cities which are bigger than Nairobi but that don’t seem to be as culturally sophisticated. If you look at Lagos or Accra, for example, there are really few shopping centres compared with Nairobi. Among the things that have made Nairobi such a success is Kenya Airways and the routes it has developed over the years. What’s the best advice you have ever received with regards to real estate?To get on the property ladder. You have to earn the property that you live in, even if it’s in the form of mortgage. If you rent a property, you are taking a percentage of your salary and giving it to someone else, but if you own a property the salary you get may be going to a lender but every single appreciation in the value of the property is your share of Nairobi’s growth. As difficult as it is, somehow you need to stop paying rent and get onto that property ladder. What’s your favourite destination in East Africa? I have just come back from Watamu on Kenya’s North Coast. I love the Coast. It’s in my blood because I grew up on the beach. I’m currently learning to kitesurf whenever I find myself at the Coast. What is your favourite Kenyan food? I love most Kenyan foods but having madafu [juice from a young coconut] on the beach is my favourite moment. Where would you be most likely to spend your weekend? I love mountain biking. I love cycling around the bottom of the Rift Valley watching the giraffes and other wild animals. What do you love most about Kenya? I definitely love the Kenyan weather, and the fact that Kenyans are very friendly people. What’s your biggest achievement? I’m proud of my family, of course, but seeing this company grow gives me a source of pride. When I came here there were only 35 employees, there are now over 150 people working here. I can’t take all the credit for this but I’m happy to be part of a team that has seen this company grow to where it is now. Any regrets? Yeah, I should have bought more property when it was cheaper. What would be your message to international investors considering Kenya as a business and investment destination? Do it. Infrastructure challenges aside, this is the best time to invest in Kenya. Political and security issues will come and go but what will remain is Kenya’s position as an economic hub.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.