As we inch closer to the August 4 presidential polls, we are starting to get a feel of what to expect from candidates, what their talking points may be and what may preoccupy their campaigns. For example, in his acceptance speech as RPF flag-bearer, President Paul Kagame requested his party faithful to start thinking about a transition from him and urged the youth to join politics if they do not want to be ruled by politicians they do not deserve! The president’s call to the youth to aspire higher, including aspiring to be President generated a lot of buzz since, historically, it wasn’t considered patriotic for someone to think of occupying this office traditionally held by someone referred to as “father of the nation”. Meanwhile, the Green Party chief and presidential aspirant Frank Habineza has not been happy with me for suggesting that due to his party weakness, historical precedent in such elections and RPF strength, he will not get more than one per cent of the total national vote. Habineza further disagreed with me that PSD and PL party’s decision to support President Kagame was democratic although motivated, in part, by the desire by leaders in these parties to keep their cake/jobs. He argued that, “What they [parties] did can risk the country [sliding] into a one party state” As a result of this disagreement, Habineza not only referred to me in his writings as an RPF “propagandist” but also formally complained to the electoral commission and requested it to punish me for expressing a different view from his! Penned opinion Meanwhile, RPF man and former minister of finance, Prof Manasseh Nshuti penned an opinion in a local daily calling me “malicious” for suggesting that PSD and PL parties’ support for Kagame’s candidature was in part oiled by the need for these parties’ leaders to remain high on the national-food-chain. As is clear, while Habineza and Manasseh’s view of my motivation are similar, they are markedly contradictory since one cannot be a propagandist for a party, and at the same time be malicious towards it or its allies. So, their perceptions of my motivation are more about their beliefs than mine. These are our “democrats!” If someone expounds or holds a different view from theirs, it’s not because he/she is an independent agent expressing an honest view or simply being honourably wrong, it’s because s/he is naturally “bad” and “unpatriotic;” his or her character must be impugned! Compartmentalisation This compartmentalisation of citizens into the “us” — the “good,” “wise” and “patriotic” guys who know what is going on versus “them” — the “irrational” and “unpatriotic” on the basis of views one holds is not new and points to how political power has interacted with society historically. Historically, acceptable views and expressions thereof have not followed from the natural or legal individual right possessed by all; it has followed from what those who hold political power define as such and in the process reward or punish. That’s partly why politicians of all hues believe that they alone have the monopoly of giving birth to and expressing good and wise opinion with the rest of us —ordinary citizens, journalists, the media, commentators, etc — having the duty to unquestioningly believe in and follow them! In part, this is what Prof Mahmood Mamdani, in his book When Victims Become Killers refers to as political power defining scientific truth such that every regime since independence tends to have scholars who perpetuate its views and once that regime is no more, a new round of “truth” emerges. "Liberating views" That’s why most politicians — even those who aren’t known for any unique idea or achievement — refer to ordinary citizens (abaturage) as “ignorant” or people who don’t know what they want or what’s good for them. These politicians perceive their job to be one of liberating these citizens from this ailment!Yet, the right of individuals and groups to hold and express differing views without the fear of punishment is one of the cornerstones of democracy. To punish alternative views as my friend Habineza wants the electoral commission to do is to mutilate democracy just as intolerance to differing opinion is invitation to dictatorship. Christopher Kayumba, PhD. Senior Lecturer, School of Journalism and Communication, UR; Lead consultant, MGC Consult International Ltd. E-mail: ckayumba@yahoo.com; twitter account: @Ckayumba Website:www.mgcconsult.com   Others argue that the vote confirms the weakness in these parties while others said it cements elite political consensus. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.