In January this year, former US president George Herbert Walker Bush Senior and his wife Barbara Bush captured the world s attention when they were both hospitalised at the Houston Methodist Hospital suffering from different ailments. The two, who have been married for 72 years longer than any US first couple were being treated for pneumonia for Bush senior and bronchitis for the former first lady. He was later to be readmitted and again released from hospital in late April. President and Mrs Bush are very pleased to be home spending time with family and friends and grateful for the outstanding care provided by his doctors and nurses, Bush s spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement. The 41st US president is currently living out his retirement in Kenne-bunkport, Maine, where he and his 91-year-old wife spend their summers and will be celebrating his 93rd birth on June 12. Bush and his wife live in Houston, Texas during the winter because of the warm Texan weather which works well for both their health, said McGrath. Presidential museum Born in June 12, 1924 in Milton, Massachusetts, Bush Sr served in various roles as a congressman, CIA director, US liaison to China and Ronald Reagan s vice president, which are all documented at his memorial library in College Station, Texas. The $37 million memorial library hosts more than 44 million documents, paying a fine tribute to a man who dedicated his life to the service of his country. The presidential museum hosts information about the first couple s lives and their road to the White House ups and downs, victories and defeats and love and loss. We have documents in here that have allowed visitors from within the country, and also from outside, to learn about World War II, view original national documents and get an inside and intimate look at the president s homes, one of the library guides tells a visiting crowd. The natural flow of the museum follows Bush Sr s childhood days, with the first section showing family photos over several generations. An imposing man of six feet, six inches. My father was probably the person who had the most influence in my life. My mother on the other hand was the guiding light in my life and led us by example, Bush writes in one of the notes posted along side the display of his childhood photos. Memorabilia showing US President George W. Bush senior's life in public service. PHOTO | ALLAN OLINGO Daring escape Atop the entrance of the museum is a replica of a military jet, which Bush, then a 20-year-old pilot and lieutenant in the US navy, flew as a naval aviator during World War II. His plane was hit by enemy fire during a mission over Bonin Islands but he bailed out and was rescued by a US navy ship near Chichi Jima, a tiny island south of Tokyo next to the more famous Iwo Jima. After allowing his co-pilots to parachute out, Bush ditched his plane farther from the island, and managed to scramble on to a life raft. He was saved after US planes launched an attack at Japanese boats that were advancing, which gave him the window of opportunity to be rescued by a US submarine, the guide tells us. In January this year, former US president George Herbert Walker Bush Senior and his wife Barbara Bush captured the world s attention when they were both hospitalised at the Houston Methodist Hospital suffering from different ailments.The two, who have been married for 72 years longer than any US first couple were being treated for pneumonia for Bush senior and bronchitis for the former first lady. He was later to be readmitted and again released from hospital in late April. President and Mrs Bush are very pleased to be home spending time with family and friends and grateful for the outstanding care provided by his doctors and nurses, Bush s spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement.The 41st US president is currently living out his retirement in Kenne-bunkport, Maine, where he and his 91-year-old wife spend their summers and will be celebrating his 93rd birth on June 12. Bush and his wife live in Houston, Texas during the winter because of the warm Texan weather which works well for both their health, said McGrath.Presidential museumBorn in June 12, 1924 in Milton, Massachusetts, Bush Sr served in various roles as a congressman, CIA director, US liaison to China and Ronald Reagan s vice president, which are all documented at his memorial library in College Station, Texas. The $37 million memorial library hosts more than 44 million documents, paying a fine tribute to a man who dedicated his life to the service of his country. The presidential museum hosts information about the first couple s lives and their road to the White House ups and downs, victories and defeats and love and loss. We have documents in here that have allowed visitors from within the country, and also from outside, to learn about World War II, view original national documents and get an inside and intimate look at the president s homes, one of the library guides tells a visiting crowd.The natural flow of the museum follows Bush Sr s childhood days, with the first section showing family photos over several generations. An imposing man of six feet, six inches. My father was probably the person who had the most influence in my life. My mother on the other hand was the guiding light in my life and led us by example, Bush writes in one of the notes posted along side the display of his childhood photos.Memorabilia showing US President George W. Bush senior's life in public service. PHOTO | ALLAN OLINGODaring escapeAtop the entrance of the museum is a replica of a military jet, which Bush, then a 20-year-old pilot and lieutenant in the US navy, flew as a naval aviator during World War II. His plane was hit by enemy fire during a mission over Bonin Islands but he bailed out and was rescued by a US navy ship near Chichi Jima, a tiny island south of Tokyo next to the more famous Iwo Jima. After allowing his co-pilots to parachute out, Bush ditched his plane farther from the island, and managed to scramble on to a life raft. He was saved after US planes launched an attack at Japanese boats that were advancing, which gave him the window of opportunity to be rescued by a US submarine, the guide tells us.