The race against time to deliver key infrastructure projects pledged by the President Paul Kagame, alongside those lined up in the seven-year government manifesto has buoyed the hopes of residents living in hard-to-reach areas. With a few months to the end of the seven years and an election around the corner, officials are keen to ensure pending pledges and priority projects are delivered. A look at the budget statement indicates the government is spending close to Rwf100 billion ($1.1 million) on upcountry road infrastructure in the next financial year besides Rwf10.7 billion ($12.6 million) going to feeder roads, and another bulk on rehabilitation. Finance and Economic Planning minister Claver Gatete said emphasis was put on pending presidential pledges. “We prioritised allocation to the projects pledged to the population by the president of the republic,” Minister Gatete said while reading the 2017/18 budget recently. The poor state of the roads upcountry has had a negative impact on the residents as existing transport operators avoid such areas. Presidential pledges Official figures indicate there are close to 260 presidential pledges made to the population across the country. A section of the ruling party MPs had earlier faulted budget officials for delayed delivery of a number of such pledges in addition to priority projects under the government’s 2010/17 programme. Most cited cases include the construction of Gatonde health centre in Gakenke District; roads such as Gasabo-Nyacyonga-Rulindo, Nyarugenge-Nzove-Gakenke, Huye–Kibeho, Ngoma–Nyanza in Southerm Province, Nyagatare-Base as well as Kagitumba –Rusumo road. Others are stadiums in Eastern Bugesera, Ngoma and Nyagatare Districts alongside TVET schools. Finance Ministry figures show more than 179 presidential pledges have been delivered as at last year while implementation on 67 pledges was still on-going. The government, however, indicates the 2017/18 fiscal year will see all the remaining 13 presidential pledges commissioned, alongside works on many other infrastructure projects. In the new budget, for example, works on more than seven key roads will start on July 1st. These include Gisiza-Rubavu road ($17.5 million), Kagitumba–Kayonza-Rusumo ($16 million), Base-Butaro-Kidaho (Rwf11 billion) and Ngoma-Nyanza road. The government also reports mixed progress on Kivu belt, Base-Butaro-Kirambo, Base-Rukomo, Ruhango–Kinazi-Rutabo, Mbuga–Mpimbi-Burerabana-Nyabinoni, Rukali-Kabuga and Pindura-Bweyeye. Minecofin said roads like Huye-Kibeho are likely to be built using external funding from partners, while Kigali’s road infrastructure is under progress. The target under the seven-year programme was to achieve 100 per cent construction, rehabilitation and maintenance level on all Kigali tarmac and murram roads and bridges from 39 per cent in 2010.   Projects pledged by President Paul Kagame to residents during his outreach visits, alongside others lined-up in the seven-year government programme. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.