Four Gulf nations early this week severed their ties with Qatar, accusing it of supporting terrorism, thus opening up the worst rift in years among some of the most powerful states in the Arab world. The immediate effect was disruption of aviation, shipping and trade between the world and Doha. The co-ordinated move by Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain dramatically escalated a dispute over Qatar s support of terrorists including Al Qaeda-backed Al Shabaab militants in Somalia, who have destabilised East Africa. The three Gulf states gave Qatari visitors and residents two weeks to leave their countries. Doha was also expelled from a Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen. Emirati Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash told the Associated Press that Qatar has chosen to ride the tiger of extremism and terrorists, adding, Their fingerprints are all over the place in terror funding. Enough is enough. The move created an immediate disturbance that saw flights cancelled or rescheduled, throwing thousands of travellers itineraries into disarray, after the Gulf states and Egypt banned all flights to and from Qatar from their airspace. Qatar Airline had to find a new flight path. By last Thursday, it was only the Nairobi-bound flight that had been pushed back by an hour, while the rest were scheduled to leave on time. EAC relations The airline operates eight daily flights from the East African region with its aircraft flying from Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Tanzania, Djibouti and Ethiopia to Doha. It is only the Kigali flight that makes a stopover in Entebbe en route to Qatar. Qatar Airways is planning to launch direct flights between Mombasa and Doha next year. This blockade leaves a lot of questions especially in the EAC region, which has in recent years emerged as of interest to Doha in the agricultural, and extractives sectors. What does this mean for East Africa diplomatic relations not just with Qatar, but the four powerful oil producing countries? Where does the region sit given the impact of terrorist activities by Al Shabaab, whom Qatar is now being accused of funding? Last week Tuesday, Kenya s Foreign Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed called a meeting to discuss the diplomatic fallout, asking Kenyan officials in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates to collate background information about the falling out. I have asked our representatives in the Middle East to brief us on what is happening. As soon as we have all the information, we can comment from an informed position. It is premature to say anything, Ms Mohamed told The EastAfrican, without saying how Kenya has been affected by this crisis so far. Kenyan travel agents warned customers that travelling to and from Doha may not be as straightforward as usual following closure of borders and airspaces. The Qatar national carrier now takes a longer route to access and leave Doha, its main hub, in a bid to avoid the restricted airspace. It is now increasingly flying over Iran and Turkey, since it is encircled almost wholly by Bahraini airspace, with the only other exits being through Saudi Arabia to the south and through UAE airspace to the east, increasing most flight time by an average of an hour. Four Gulf nations early this week severed their ties with Qatar, accusing it of supporting terrorism, thus opening up the worst rift in years among some of the most powerful states in the Arab world.The immediate effect was disruption of aviation, shipping and trade between the world and Doha. The co-ordinated move by Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain dramatically escalated a dispute over Qatar s support of terrorists including Al Qaeda-backed Al Shabaab militants in Somalia, who have destabilised East Africa.The three Gulf states gave Qatari visitors and residents two weeks to leave their countries. Doha was also expelled from a Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen.Emirati Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash told the Associated Press that Qatar has chosen to ride the tiger of extremism and terrorists, adding, Their fingerprints are all over the place in terror funding. Enough is enough. The move created an immediate disturbance that saw flights cancelled or rescheduled, throwing thousands of travellers itineraries into disarray, after the Gulf states and Egypt banned all flights to and from Qatar from their airspace.Qatar Airline had to find a new flight path. By last Thursday, it was only the Nairobi-bound flight that had been pushed back by an hour, while the rest were scheduled to leave on time.EAC relationsThe airline operates eight daily flights from the East African region with its aircraft flying from Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Tanzania, Djibouti and Ethiopia to Doha. It is only the Kigali flight that makes a stopover in Entebbe en route to Qatar. Qatar Airways is planning to launch direct flights between Mombasa and Doha next year.This blockade leaves a lot of questions especially in the EAC region, which has in recent years emerged as of interest to Doha in the agricultural, and extractives sectors. What does this mean for East Africa diplomatic relations not just with Qatar, but the four powerful oil producing countries? Where does the region sit given the impact of terrorist activities by Al Shabaab, whom Qatar is now being accused of funding?Last week Tuesday, Kenya s Foreign Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed called a meeting to discuss the diplomatic fallout, asking Kenyan officials in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates to collate background information about the falling out. I have asked our representatives in the Middle East to brief us on what is happening. As soon as we have all the information, we can comment from an informed position. It is premature to say anything, Ms Mohamed told The EastAfrican, without saying how Kenya has been affected by this crisis so far.Kenyan travel agents warned customers that travelling to and from Doha may not be as straightforward as usual following closure of borders and airspaces.The Qatar national carrier now takes a longer route to access and leave Doha, its main hub, in a bid to avoid the restricted airspace. It is now increasingly flying over Iran and Turkey, since it is encircled almost wholly by Bahraini airspace, with the only other exits being through Saudi Arabia to the south and through UAE airspace to the east, increasing most flight time by an average of an hour.