Controversy has clouded the Kenyan government s plan to move crude oil from Turkana in the north of the country to Mombasa on the coast by road, starting this month, even as uncertainty over the launch date remains. The Early Oil Pilot Scheme by British multinational Tullow Oil and the Ministry of Energy has faced questions on its viability since last year, and the Nation has now learned of concerns about integrity. Top in the potential conflict of interest controversy is that Martin Mbogo, who is Tullow Oil Kenya's country manager, and MaryJane Mwangi, the acting chief executive officer of the National Oil Corporation of Kenya, are a couple living together. Nock regulates part of Tullow s operations. The state corporation is involved in all aspects of the petroleum supply chain including the upstream oil (where Tullow operates), marketing of Kenya s exploration acreage, and managing exploration data, among other responsibilities. The state corporation s employees were first to raise the alarm through a whistle-blower e-mail in February after the search for a new chief executive to replace Sumayya Hassan-Athmani who exited the company in acrimonious circumstances last July began. 'BIG BUSINESS' She is the wife to the boss of Tullow Oil which is doing very big business with National Oil that will lead to a lot of conflicts of interest like the Kapese station and Brits transport who are transporting fuel to them, read the e-mail sent to Consumers Federation of Kenya in February. Apart from maintaining the National Data Centre for all exploration, Nock also assists in the negotiation of licences and is expected to be the holder of government participation share in development of oil and gas fields, which starts with the Early Oil Pilot Scheme. In fact, any company wishing to prospect for oil in Kenya must first obtain a licence in the form of a production sharing contract. The PSC also sets out how the company will be compensated if the results of exploration are successful. Nock playing a role in these negotiations and Tullow being an explorer heightens the potential conflict in the relationship. In response to an enquiry by the Nation, Tullow Oil said it was aware of the potential conflict of interest and that the company has its properly documented Code of Ethical Conduct that includes advice on how to manage the matter. We are aware that our Kenya country manager has properly documented any applicable conflicts of interest and these have been properly managed as per the guidelines, Tullow replied, in reference to Mr Mbogo. Ministry's reaction Controversy has clouded the Kenyan government s plan to move crude oil from Turkana in the north of the country to Mombasa on the coast by road, starting this month, even as uncertainty over the launch date remains.The Early Oil Pilot Scheme by British multinational Tullow Oil and the Ministry of Energy has faced questions on its viability since last year, and the Nation has now learned of concerns about integrity.Top in the potential conflict of interest controversy is that Martin Mbogo, who is Tullow Oil Kenya's country manager, and MaryJane Mwangi, the acting chief executive officer of the National Oil Corporation of Kenya, are a couple living together. Nock regulates part of Tullow s operations.The state corporation is involved in all aspects of the petroleum supply chain including the upstream oil (where Tullow operates), marketing of Kenya s exploration acreage, and managing exploration data, among other responsibilities.The state corporation s employees were first to raise the alarm through a whistle-blower e-mail in February after the search for a new chief executive to replace Sumayya Hassan-Athmani who exited the company in acrimonious circumstances last July began.'BIG BUSINESS' She is the wife to the boss of Tullow Oil which is doing very big business with National Oil that will lead to a lot of conflicts of interest like the Kapese station and Brits transport who are transporting fuel to them, read the e-mail sent to Consumers Federation of Kenya in February.Apart from maintaining the National Data Centre for all exploration, Nock also assists in the negotiation of licences and is expected to be the holder of government participation share in development of oil and gas fields, which starts with the Early Oil Pilot Scheme.In fact, any company wishing to prospect for oil in Kenya must first obtain a licence in the form of a production sharing contract. The PSC also sets out how the company will be compensated if the results of exploration are successful. Nock playing a role in these negotiations and Tullow being an explorer heightens the potential conflict in the relationship.In response to an enquiry by the Nation, Tullow Oil said it was aware of the potential conflict of interest and that the company has its properly documented Code of Ethical Conduct that includes advice on how to manage the matter. We are aware that our Kenya country manager has properly documented any applicable conflicts of interest and these have been properly managed as per the guidelines, Tullow replied, in reference to Mr Mbogo.Ministry's reaction