Kenya's polling agency has Tuesday morning replaced presiding officers in three Nairobi constituencies following a delay in opening the polling stations to voters. This was announced by Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman Wafula Chebukati in his first official briefing of the day. They were stationed at Westlands, Embakasi East and Kasarani constituencies. “Nairobi has the highest number of registered voters and we are experiencing a few challenges. In some polling stations in Embakasi East, Kasarani and Westlands we have experienced delayed opening. We have immediately replaced the returning officers in these three constituencies and deployed commissioners to ensure efficient management of these locations,” said Mr Chebukati. In the polling stations that opened late, IEBC says their staff will compensate by extending the voting period by the same amount of hours that were lost. Despite the morning hitch, Mr Chebukati expressed satisfaction with the turnout of voters throughout the country so far. Bad weather He also announced that a heavy downpour last night affected delivery of ballot materials to Turkana North, Samburu and Baringo. “We have used helicopters to respond to these emerging issues. This caused delays in some of the polling stations,” the IEBC chairman said. “We are also aware of reports that in some cases the identification took longer than expected while some officers had challenges switching on the KIEMS kits. Our clerks have also been instructed to use alphanumeric identification, whereby they key in the voter’s ID number into the IEBC platform to confirm registration. We are also replacing some of the KIEMS kits,” he said. Extra ICT staff The commission, he said, has also deployed extra ICT support staff to resolve technical issues particularly in Wajir, Eldas, Isiolo, Dadaab, Borabu and Fafi. “We also want to urge party agents to work with presiding officers to address issues specific to the polling stations that they are observing. The returning officers are authorized and well equipped to address all issues affecting the polling stations,” he said. Mr Chebukati will give the public regular updates every three hours of the voting exercise and as is necessary as issues emerge. IEBC has deployed toll free lines - 1527, 1537, 1538 and 1539 - through which voters can raise any concerns. READ: Technology plays key role in Kenyan polls   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.