The delay by the City of Kigali, Rwanda to provide dedicated lanes for buses is impeding operators’ ability to fulfill contractual obligations with the transport sector regulator.The development comes as the Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority (Rura) extended statutory management of Kigali Bus Services to September. While the operators, who include the Rwanda Federation of Transport Co-operatives, Kigali Bus Services (KBS) and Royal Express are expected to spend less than five minutes at any stop, time lost to traffic jams during rush hours means the target time is not met. The operators are now pushing the city to expedite the introduction of rapid bus lanes.“Without dedicated bus lanes these delays in jams and long queues will continue as it is increasingly becoming difficult for the drivers to be at a stop and terminal in time,” says Bishop Kahangire, operations manager of the Rwanda Federation of Transport Co-operatives. “We are competing for lanes with small cars, which are increasing. A build up in vehicle numbers on Kigali roads is causing these jams resulting in long queues at bus stops. This increases operational costs for operators and slows turnaround time for buses,” Mr Kahangire said. According to data from the National Institute of statistics of Rwanda, the number of registered vehicles in the country has nearly doubled from 88,621 in 2010 to 161,925 by December 2015. In 2015, the number of public service transport vehicles stood at 3,040. Of these, 2,029 were cars, 939 medium-sized commuter buses and 72 mainline buses. The resultant long queues and delays on routes, according to operators are irritating Rura’s inspectors who have issued warning or punitive fines. “The drivers are fined between Rwf30,000 and Rwf60,000,” said an operator. It is understood that the operators are pushing for dedicated lanes after one of their own, Kigali Bus Services management was suspended in November last year on allegations of breach of contract. READ: Kigali in fresh bid to enforce PSV speed rules Rura is now managing the company and had said it would hand back the management of Kigali Bus Services in May. Sources say Rura will manage Kigali Bus Services until September — a decision this paper could not independently verify. “I don’t have details about Kigali Bus Services,” said Anthony Kulamba Rura spokesperson, adding, “I need to consult with the management of the company.” But, industry players blame some of the woes of Kigali Bus Services on policy failure and unrealistic targets. “There is a lot of pressure from Rura for us to be on the road every time even when the routes have no passengers,” says Kahangire. City of Kigali communications director Bruno Rangira said plans to have dedicated lanes for bus operators are at an advanced stage, although he did not provide specific timelines. “The final feasibility study is being carried out by Spea Engineering Company, an Italian firm. They have already submitted the survey report,” said Mr Rangira. “The contractors are expected to provide the detailed report in July 2018,” he said. Studies project traffic to increase by over 10 per cent by 2020. READ: Govt to phase out 30-seater PSVs from Kigali   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.