Rwandan President Paul Kagame has unveiled a gender-balanced Cabinet in accordance with an earlier pledge, with 11 of 20 posts taken by women. The President and his new Prime Minister Dr Edouard Ngirente named a mix of former ministers and new figures in their line-up that also saw new dockets created. Of the six new faces in Cabinet, five of them are women. Francine Tumushime will be in charge of the newly created Ministry of Lands and Forestry while Marie Solange Kayisire is the Minister of Cabinet Affairs in the PM's office. Rosemary Mbabazi, previously a Permanent Secretary in Trade and Industry now moves up to Youth minister. Jeanne d’Arc Debonheur is Minister of Disaster Preparedness and Refugee Affairs, and Fanfan Kayirangwa Rwanyindo is Labour minister. Vincent Munyeshyaka is Minister of Trade and Industry, having previously served as junior minister in charge of socio-economic development under the Ministry of Local Government. Retained Louise Mushikiwabo, one of the three longest serving ministers, has retained her post as Minister Foreign Affairs and Co-operation. Her docket has also been expanded to include East African Community affairs, previously under the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Other long-serving ministers who have kept their dockets include James Musoni in Infrastructure and Gen James Kabarebe of Defence. Claver Gatete will continue to serve as Minister of Finance and Economic Planning, Papias Musafiri Malimba in Education and Johnston Busingye at the Ministry of Justice. Others are Julienne Uwacu of Sports and Culture, Diane Gashumba of Health, Geraldine Mukeshimana of Agriculture and Livestock, and NYIRASAFARI Esperance Nyirasafari of Gender and Family Promotion. Francis Kaboneka is still Local Government minister while Vincent Biruta is Minister of Environment. Jean Philbert Nsengimana is ICT minister after his docket was contracted with the creation of Youth ministry. Dropped Notable among those dropped is long-serving Francois Kanimba who was Minister of Trade, Industry and East African Community Affairs. He was replaced by Mr Munyeshyaka. Venantie Tugireyezu has been replaced by Judith Uwizeye as Minister in the President’s Office. Ms Uwizeye was the Minister of Labour and Public Service. Stella Ford Mugabo who was Minister for Cabinet Affairs has also been dropped. Seraphine Mukantabana leaves the Cabinet position as Minister of Disaster Preparedness and Refugee Affairs for Rwanda Demobilisation and Reintegration Commission (RDRC) as the chairperson. Ms Mukantabana had been at the helm of the ministry since 2013 and was instrumental in facilitating the return of Rwandan refugees who had fled the country after the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi. State ministers Eleven state ministers were also named in the new government of which two are women. Most notable appointment is Olivier Nduhungirehe, who will be State Minister in charge of EAC Affairs. Mr Nduhungirehe was Rwanda’s Ambassador to Belgium and the European Union and a youthful vocal government defender on social media. The new team was sworn in Thursday in Parliament.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.