Regular travellers to Qatar Airways’ hub in Doha from Kigali, Rwanda are facing disruptions after the Middle Eastern carrier announced a suspension of bookings from the country until September 1. For the past few weeks, passengers have been connecting to Doha through Entebbe on Rwandair or through Nairobi on Kenya Airways. Both options involve long layovers or late night arrivals as opposed to the daytime arrivals that were available on Qatar’s service through Entebbe. In what it described as a temporary suspension of service, Qatar’s sales office in Kigali said it had stopped accepting bookings from Kigali for travel between July 3 and September 1. “Qatar Airways bookings and reservations are closed from July 3 until September 1, due to operational reasons,” the airline said in a brief statement to customers. READ: Airlines halt Kigali freight services The carrier suspended its flights to Kigali last month shortly after the Qatar diplomatic crisis that saw the country’s Arab neighbours impose an air and trade blockade that affected operations. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Egypt have blocked Qatar Airways from their airspace forcing the airline to reroute its flights through Iran and Turkey. This increased the distance from Entebbe to Doha from 3,471 kilometres before the blockade to 3,756km. However, the flying time has been maintained within the six-hour window that the journey took previously. Although the distance between Doha and Entebbe is well within the 6,100km range of the A320, Qatar upgraded the service to an A330-200 but dropped the Kigali leg. While officials at Qatar’s office said they were not authorised to speak beyond the contents of the statement, sources in the travel industry said the carrier would be launching a stand-alone service to Kigali. The carrier launched the Kigali service in March 2012 after securing fifth freedom rights between Entebbe and Kigali. These were however subsequently lost after Rwanda stopped reciprocating them. READ: Kenya Airways new cargo fleet to serve Kigali According to sources in the travel industry, Kigali has been contributing 40 and 60 passengers to the service during low and peak seasons respectively. The numbers for the peak season mean the airline would be close to the breakeven point of 75 passengers on the A320 if it chose to launch a separate service to Kigali. The move to the A330 on the Entebbe service could also mean that the route has outgrown the limited passenger and capacity of the A320. That would put Qatar in the same league with Emirates which operates a daily service on the route using a wide body aircraft. However, if Qatar exits the Kigali route it will be the second passenger airline to do so after Flydubai, which stopped services to Kigali and Bujumbura in February 2016. ALSO READ: High fees making Kigali route costly, say airlines   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.