President Muhammadu Buhari has warned against unguarded comments about Nigeria’s unity. The president, in his first address at home following 103 days medical vacation in the UK, said that Nigeria's unity was settled and not negotiable. President Buhari, who returned home on Monday said: "Every Nigerian has a right to live anywhere in the country’’. "I was distressed to notice that some comments, especially in the social media, have crossed our national red lines by daring to question our collective existence as a nation. This is a step too far.” In an apparent move to douse the prevailing tension, President Buhari, in the live broadcast, warned those issuing quit notices to other ethnic groups to desist immediately. Vast majority “Nigeria’s unity is settled and not negotiable. We shall not allow irresponsible elements to start trouble and when things get bad they run away and saddle others with the responsibility of bringing back order, if necessary with their blood.” President Buhari said: "I believe the very vast majority of Nigerians share this view.’’ Northern Nigerian youths, on the platform of the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, have given the Igbo people in the north up to October 1 to vacate the 19 states. The Forum reported it gave the ultimatum because of the continuing clamour for the creation of a Biafra Republic by some youths in the south east. The northern group also hinged its action on alleged insults against the north by the separatists in south east, without any reprimand from their elders. Some militants Also recently, some militants in the Niger Delta ordered the Hausa and Yoruba to leave the oil-rich region. President Buhari acknowledged that there were legitimate concerns and grievance, but that the federal system of government allowed various groups to air their concerns and work out modalities for co-existence. “The National Assembly and the National Council of State are the legitimate and appropriate bodies for national discourse. “The national consensus is that, it is better to live together than to live apart.” The president reported that in 2013, he had an interaction in Daura with the late Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, who led the war against Nigeria from 1967 to 1970 when he declared Biafra republic. President Buhari explained that he hosted Gen Ojukwu after he joined politics, for two days and concluded that Nigeria should remain united. Series of attacks President Buhari urged security agencies not to allow the successes against the Boko Haram in the last 18 months to be a waste. He said that terrorists and criminals should be fought and destroyed so that the people can live in peace. The government, he went on, would reinforce and reinvigorate the fight against insurgents and other criminals. “Elements of Boko Haram which are attempting a new series of attacks on soft targets must be fought “Kidnappings, farmers versus herdsmen clashes, in addition to ethnic violence fuelled by political mischief makers. We shall tackle them all.’’ The president urged Nigerians to come together to face their common challenges.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.