Six civil servants attached to Uganda’s Ntungamo District Local Government have been suspended for alleged indecent dressing. The suspended officers are Mr Godfrey Tumusiime, Mr Alex Ashaba, Mr Robert Muhwezi, Mr Johnson Ahabwe, Mr Rodgers Kizito and Mr Felix Barugahare. They were suspended by the Chief Administrative Officer Kweyamba Ruhemba who faulted them for defying public service standing orders by dressing in a manner that portrays a bad image of the district. They were all found without neckties. Mr Ruhemba says the officers have been sent on forced leave for two months to enable them “learn” how to dress decently. Early 2017, the Ministry of Public Service issued guidelines banning sleeveless, transparent and tight clothing for non-uniformed officers in public service. Public Service Permanent Secretary, Ms Catherine Bitarakwate Musingwiire said that the guidelines were in line with the Public Service Standing Orders. The Uganda Public Service Standing Orders, 2010, stipulates that officers shall be required to dress decently and in the generally acceptable standards in the Uganda Community. The orders, however, do not highlight what would constitute decent, smart and reasonable dressing. READ: Cleavage, miniskirts ban for Uganda civil servants In line with the guidelines, all female members of the public service are required to dress in a skirt or dress that is not above the knees, with a smart, long or short sleeved blouse. All clothing is expected to cover the cleavage, navel and the back while sleeveless and transparent blouses and dresses were banned. Also banned are tight fitting dresses and skirts, flat shoes and coloured hair presented in form of natural, braids and hair extensions. Female employees are also not allowed to have long nails measuring more than 3-inches, bright and multi-coloured nail polish and chandelier earrings. Male public servants are expected to present themselves in neat trousers, long sleeved shirts, jackets and a necktie. Their clothing is restricted to only five colours; black, brown, grey, navy blue, and dark green. The civil servants, according to the Standing Orders, are not allowed to wear open shoes during working hours except on health grounds. The recommended should shoes are also restricted to only brown and black colours. READ: Uganda tables Bill to outlaw miniskirts   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.