The civil society umbrella, Kura Yangu, Sauti Yangu this week released its second review of figures in the public domain from the IEBC. Its findings, yet again, highlight questions to which Kenyans deserve answers. First, it notes there are now three sets of official figures in the public domain as concerns the presidential results. Those declared two weeks ago by the IEBC’s chair (the source of which is still unknown and unverifiable). Those on the IEBC’s results website, including figures supposedly from individual polling stations and constituency tallying centres. And those on the IEBC’s documentation website, including the relevant Forms 34A (polling station results) and 34B (constituency-level tallies). Second, it notes none of those three sets of official figures matches up. The declared results do not match the results data for any county and only match the documentation data (in the Form 34Bs) in four counties. Similarly, the results data only matches the documentation data (in the Form 34Bs) in one county. Obviously, the question is why. Third, KYSY (Kura Yangu, Sauti Yangu) reiterates the point made in its first release — there are differences in the total number of registered voters certified (after which no additions could supposedly be made) and the total number of registered voters contained in the results and documentation sites. The number of registered voters increased by 25,638 post-certification — with the highest increase, of 20,696, being evident in Central. The question is how this happened? Fourth, not only was turnout more than registered voters in a number of constituencies but valid votes (for example in Likoni) were more than turnout in some constituencies. To date, the IEBC has not nullified these supposed results. Here, the question is why not? Finally, KYSY notes that it has cases where multiple Form 34Bs exist for the same constituency — some of which were collected by its own monitors observing the count and tally and some of which are now up on the documentation site. As these multiple Form 34Bs both bear the official stamp of the IEBC and the requisite signatures, it is impossible for KYSY to say which Form 34B is more legitimate and valid than the other. Yet again, the question is, how did this happen? Overall, there are more questions than answers. For the IEBC. For every sub-contractor that financed it and supposedly gave it technical advice. For every company procured to provide us with our massively expensive and “foolproof” system for results transmission. And, of course, for every electoral observation mission that chirpily signed off on these elections based solely on the performance and ritual of the same, not its more profound meaning. L. Muthoni Wanyeki is Amnesty International’s regional director for East Africa, the Horn and the Great Lakes.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.