The European Union (EU) department for humanitarian aid and civil protection has doubled funding to International Organisation for Migration (IOM), to facilitate relief efforts to South Sudanese refugees in the West Nile districts of Yumbe and Moyo. The Directorate General for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO), had initially pledged $1.1m for water and sanitation projects in the two districts but given the continued influx of the refugees, committed another $1.1m. ECHO resident representative, Isabelle D’Haudt said the new credit line is a show of solidarity with the government for its continued support to the refugees. The funding will be channelled through IOM, the inter-governmental organisation specialising in migrants and internally displaced people, and its partner organisation, the Lutheran World Federation. READ: EU offers $95m to fund Uganda's refugee response Total fundingThe total IOM funding in the two districts now stands at $2.5m.IOM Uganda chief of mission, Ali Abdi, praised the EU and the government for its continued support for the South Sudanese refugees as the influx keeps increasing every day. “The EU has been an unwavering partner of the people of Uganda and of IOM, and we see yet again that the EU is coming in where help is critically needed,” said Mr Abdi. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is in urgent need of $539m to fully cope with the unprecedented pour in. READ: Uganda struggles to cope with 1m South Sudanese refugees Uganda is currently ranked in the 5th position of countries with the largest refugee population in the world, according to UNHCR’s 2016 estimates. The new arrivals in the period since could, however, put Uganda among the top three countries behind Turkey which is still unparalleled. President Museveni and UN Secretary General António Guterres, convened the ‘Solidarity Summit’ on June 23, to mobilise $2b to assist both the refugees and host communities managed collect only $358.6m in pledges. Related stories:   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.