South Africa's legislators will next Tuesday debate holding emergency elections, the National Assembly programme committee has confirmed. The Democratic Alliance (DA) has called for early elections as provided for in the Constitution, following the failed August 9 motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. The next General Election is scheduled for 2019, but DA says "South Africa cannot afford another two years of ANC governance". DA's chief whip in parliament John Steenhuisen said the ruling African National Congress had lost the confidence of the majority of South Africans. READ: SA President Zuma survives eighth no-confidence vote Our economy "With over half of South Africans living in abject poverty, 9.3 million of our people without work and our economy showing no signs of being able to recover from the recession, we need a new beginning. "The drafters of our Constitution foresaw a need to include a provision to allow for early elections for this very purpose. The events of 8 August made it clear that our country desperately needs a new beginning. "The ANC can no longer be trusted to govern and it is clear that South Africans have had enough," Mr Steenhuisen said. He added that DA will call on all MPs to support the motion to usher in new elections. The ballot box "Given the enormity of the challenges lying ahead, South Africa cannot afford to have that ANC in power any longer," he said. DA has also called on South Africans to sign a petition calling for early elections. The party believes parliament requires a new beginning through the ballot box. "In the Motion of No Confidence in President Zuma on 8 August it was clear that the ANC is willing to do anything to protect this corrupt president. A man that has 783 corruption charges against him. "The ANC has proved time and again that is totally incapable of self-correcting and that they will do anything to protect President Zuma and keep him in power. As the ANC fights itself, Parliament is becoming dysfunctional," read a DA statement. ALSO READ: Zuma guns for MPs who voted with opposition   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.