Insurance companies worldwide are facing an uncertain future due to rigid business models and products that are not easily understood by customers, according to a new survey by consultancy firm KPMG. The survey, which sampled chief executives of global insurance companies, found that insurers change the way they do business by improving their relationship with customers and developing products that resonate well with the needs of the customers. “We’ve reached a point where the old models and processes are no longer fit for purpose,” said Gary Reader, the Global Head of Insurance at KPMG International. “It’s going to take big steps — possibly an entirely new outlook — to drive growth in the future.” According to the survey released this month, insurance CEOs will need to pick up the pace of transformation and innovation if they hope to remain competitive in this rapidly-changing business environment. In Kenya, the penetration of insurance in 2016 was 2.75 per cent, down from 2.79 per cent in 2015, according to data from the Association of Kenya Insurers. In Rwanda, insurance penetration is about 1.5 per cent, while in Uganda and Tanzania it is estimated at 0.8 per cent and one per cent respectively. Many CEOs have now turned their attention towards improving customer focus, while others have taken personal responsibility to meet their customers’ interests. Some CEOs have aligned their middle and back office processes to improve the customer-centred front office. According to the survey, the insurance sector faces rapidly changing customers’ preferences, new competitors and constant technological changes that require insurers to be open to changes. Many insurance CEOs are not very confident about the future prospects of their businesses due to continued global economic uncertainty, rapidly shifting social expectations and surprise election results in various world economies. A majority of these CEOs expect less than two per cent growth in revenues this year, and just eight per cent expect to achieve growth of more than five per cent. “The CEOs expectations for medium-term revenue growth have also moderated significantly,” the survey report states. The survey sampled more than 100 CEOs across 10 markets. According to the survey, the majority of CEOs plan to invest in digital infrastructure over the next three years. “Insurance CEOs may be confident in their current market position, but they also recognise that they face an uncertain future where new innovations, technologies and operational risks will upset the status quo and catalyse further disruption,” the survey found. “They understand that they will need to take an approach that revolutionises their relationship with customers, their use of technology and their business models,” the survey found. READ: Reforms in Uganda’s insurance sector   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.