Protests broke out across South Africa’s northern province of Gauteng on Tuesday ahead of the no-confidence vote against President Jacob Zuma. The protestors blocked roads, in the commercial hub Johannesburg and capital Pretoria, with burning tyres and rocks as early as 4am local time. The Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) confirmed the protests were related to the motion to force President Zuma to quit. Lawmakers are set to vote in the no-confidence motion on Tuesday afternoon. Bus services were disrupted by the blockades‚ forcing transport firms to suspend operations. “Rea Vaya buses are not operating this morning due to road blockages in Soweto. Passengers will be updated on the situation during the day,” tweeted Johannesburg’s largest bus company. Among the areas in Johannesburg and Pretoria that were most affected include Soweto, Zandspruit, Booysens, Turffontein, Soshanguve, Atteredgeville and Mamelodi. JMPD spokesperson Wayne Minaar urged motorists to be careful. “Soweto and Turffontein residents burnt tyres and blockaded streets from around 4am on Tuesday morning. Roads leading from the Soweto highway have been blocked as protesters placed rocks on the road,” said Mr Minaar. Michael Sun, an official at the Mayor’s office, said the protests had not been approved and were illegal. “We received reports yesterday [Monday] that political parties will be embarking on protest action; some are very peaceful and have displayed placards over the bridges but some are obviously violent with burning of tyres and placing of rocks on the roads. This is creating a bit of chaos in our city and roads,” Mr Sun said in a statement. In Cape Town, a port city on the southwest Coast where Parliament is located, the city authorities approved protests for Tuesday afternoon. Thousands are expected to march in separate protests in support or against President Zuma. Mr Zuma faces his eighth motion of no-confidence on Tuesday afternoon and, for the first time, it will be a secret ballot.   Opposition parties went to the Constitutional Court to force Baleka Mbete to accede to their calls for a secret ballot. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.