Kenyan cabinet and principal secretaries and other senior officials await the formation of the next government to see where they will be placed. Meanwhile, governors have begun a purge in county governments, which experts and trade union leaders warn could result in costly lawsuits. Sources say President Uhuru Kenyatta is keen on shaking up his Cabinet to get rid of political “liabilities” and reward loyalists who played a key role in his election victory — which is been challenged at the Supreme Court. While the presidential election petition that was filed by Nasa extended the terms of Cabinet secretaries who are political appointees, the fate of principal secretaries, county executive committee members and chief officers have been sealed as the process of recruitment new officials has started. Political appointees of the governors who lost the elections vacated their offices ahead of the swearing-ins, which ended last week to pave the way for new county bosses. Serving Cabinet Secretaries and President Kenyatta’s allies who lost in the election are lobbying for state jobs, which include key constitutional offices, where the terms of office bearers are almost coming to an end. If President Kenyatta’s re-election is upheld by the Supreme Court, he will take the oath of office by September 8 to pave the way for naming of a new Cabinet. Already, a swearing-in committee has been formed to ensure that he is sworn in by September 8 should the seven judges of the Supreme Court led by Chief Justice David Maraga dismiss the petition. Major shake-up Two months to elections, Cabinet Secretaries and other senior government were barred from foreign trips to concentrate on communicating the Jubilee government’s achievements in their ministries as a strategy to win votes. The Public Service Commission has already started the process of hiring new principal secretaries, whose terms end when a new government is formed. The governors, both newly elected and those serving their second terms, have already sent a warning to county government employees about a major shake-up that is meant to enhance service delivery to the public. Major casualties of the purge are county executive committee members and chief officers. However, the purge has already elicited warnings from trade unions and Public Service Commission, who said termination of contracts must be done in accordance with the law. Public Service Commission chairperson Margret Kobia told the governors to abide by the law when sacking and hiring county government staff to avoid legal challenges. Ordinarily, the president and governors only hire top officials, but the purge has so far affected the rank and file employees as well.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.