On March 25, the European Union marked 60 years since the signature of the Rome Treaties, the first step towards a united Europe. Since the birth of the European Communities in 1957, the citizens of our member states have enjoyed six decades of unprecedented peace, prosperity and security. The contrast to the first half of the 20th Century could not be greater. Two catastrophic wars in Europe between 1914 and 1945 left millions dead, and a continent devastated, divided and prostrate. For countries that had long been at war, European integration has been the most successful peace project in our history. However, we are living in unpredictable times and the 60th anniversary of the Rome Treaties is the opportunity not only to reaffirm our commitment to the values and objectives on which the European project is founded but also to take pragmatic and ambitious steps forward. The world is going through a time of great uncertainty: The global balance of power is shifting and the foundations of a rules-based international order are too often being questioned. The European Union will be an increasingly vital power to preserve and strengthen the global order. The EU is the largest global market and the leading foreign investor in most parts of the globe. We have achieved a strong position by acting together with one voice on the global stage, by playing a key role in removing barriers to trade as a member of the World Trade Organisation as well as concluding bilateral trade deals with many important partners around the world. We invest more in development co-operation and humanitarian aid than the rest of the world combined. The European Union is and will continue to be a strong, co-operative and reliable power. Our partners know what we stand for. We stand for multilateralism, for human rights, for international co-operation. We stand for sustainable development, inclusive societies, the fight against all inequalities in education, in democracy and human rights. For us, this is not charity: It is a smart investment in our own security and prosperity. We stand for better global rules, rules that protect people against abuse, rules that expand rights and raise standards. It is thanks to our engagement the Union together with its Member States that the global community has set up innovative agreements like the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development. In a world of re-emerging power politics, the European Union will have an even more significant role to play. A more fragile international environment calls for greater engagement, not for retrenchment. This is why the EU will continue to support and help the United Nations: Our co-operation with the UN covers peace missions, diplomatic efforts, human rights, tackling hunger and fighting criminality. The European Union is also a strong and active partner of regional organisations like the Africa Union, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Arctic Council. Over the past 60 years, the EU has transformed Europe from a war-torn continent to one which is at peace, prosperous and integrated. Africa and Africans are willing to achieve this too and the EU is ready to share the experience; the EU and Africa are mutual and historic partners. Our geography, our culture, our shared goals bring us closer than any other allies. The EU-African partnership is one of the strongest ties that unites our two continents. We will celebrate this relationship this year in Abidjan, through the EU-Africa Summit, centred on our biggest common asset the youth. The EU and Africa can shape a common future, offering our people a positive outlook. In Kenya, our partnership is also based on the shared willingness to foster peace and prosperity by providing our people with opportunities, employment, investment and an environment that will foster development and further integration in East Africa. Together, we are building a future for the people, a future free of conflict and geared towards shared prosperity and development. Whatever events the future may bring, one thing is certain: The EU will continue to place promoting international peace and security, development co-operation, human rights and responding to humanitarian crises at the heart of its foreign and security policies. On March 25, the European Union marked 60 years since the signature of the Rome Treaties, the first step towards a united Europe.Since the birth of the European Communities in 1957, the citizens of our member states have enjoyed six decades of unprecedented peace, prosperity and security. The contrast to the first half of the 20th Century could not be greater. Two catastrophic wars in Europe between 1914 and 1945 left millions dead, and a continent devastated, divided and prostrate. For countries that had long been at war, European integration has been the most successful peace project in our history.However, we are living in unpredictable times and the 60th anniversary of the Rome Treaties is the opportunity not only to reaffirm our commitment to the values and objectives on which the European project is founded but also to take pragmatic and ambitious steps forward. The world is going through a time of great uncertainty: The global balance of power is shifting and the foundations of a rules-based international order are too often being questioned. The European Union will be an increasingly vital power to preserve and strengthen the global order. The EU is the largest global market and the leading foreign investor in most parts of the globe. We have achieved a strong position by acting together with one voice on the global stage, by playing a key role in removing barriers to trade as a member of the World Trade Organisation as well as concluding bilateral trade deals with many important partners around the world.We invest more in development co-operation and humanitarian aid than the rest of the world combined. The European Union is and will continue to be a strong, co-operative and reliable power. Our partners know what we stand for.We stand for multilateralism, for human rights, for international co-operation. We stand for sustainable development, inclusive societies, the fight against all inequalities in education, in democracy and human rights. For us, this is not charity: It is a smart investment in our own security and prosperity.We stand for better global rules, rules that protect people against abuse, rules that expand rights and raise standards. It is thanks to our engagement the Union together with its Member States that the global community has set up innovative agreements like the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development. In a world of re-emerging power politics, the European Union will have an even more significant role to play. A more fragile international environment calls for greater engagement, not for retrenchment. This is why the EU will continue to support and help the United Nations: Our co-operation with the UN covers peace missions, diplomatic efforts, human rights, tackling hunger and fighting criminality. The European Union is also a strong and active partner of regional organisations like the Africa Union, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Arctic Council. Over the past 60 years, the EU has transformed Europe from a war-torn continent to one which is at peace, prosperous and integrated. Africa and Africans are willing to achieve this too and the EU is ready to share the experience; the EU and Africa are mutual and historic partners. Our geography, our culture, our shared goals bring us closer than any other allies. The EU-African partnership is one of the strongest ties that unites our two continents. We will celebrate this relationship this year in Abidjan, through the EU-Africa Summit, centred on our biggest common asset the youth. The EU and Africa can shape a common future, offering our people a positive outlook.In Kenya, our partnership is also based on the shared willingness to foster peace and prosperity by providing our people with opportunities, employment, investment and an environment that will foster development and further integration in East Africa. Together, we are building a future for the people, a future free of conflict and geared towards shared prosperity and development.Whatever events the future may bring, one thing is certain: The EU will continue to place promoting international peace and security, development co-operation, human rights and responding to humanitarian crises at the heart of its foreign and security policies.