Overflying the Laikipia plains in central Kenya, the ground below looks tidy and undisturbed. But on keener observation from a helicopter, one can see the black and white spots that dot the landscape. Cattle. Thousands of them, bathed in the mid-morning sunshine, browsing on the golden brown shrubs in the 24,000-acre Sosian ranch. But there is something else that is conspicuous: Smoke billows from a spot on the edge of a hill where, a few hours ago, some buildings stood. A short distance from the smouldering ruins of what used to be a ranch house, Offbeat Safari guide and founder, Tristan Voorspuy, lies lifeless. He has been shot dead. Mr Voorspuy, who ran a horseback safari business in the Sosian Ranch, was reportedly inspecting properties on the land when he was shot off his horse. A month before this tragedy, Sosian Ranch, which combines cattle keeping, hospitality and wildlife conservation, had scaled down its operations after armed herders overran the neighbouring 44,000-acre Suyian Ranch, and burnt down the main lodge used to host tourists. The dozens of raiders stole what they could carry and vandalised what they couldn t. Gilbert and Anna Powys, who own the ranch popularly known as Anne s Camp, could only watch from far, as the looters loaded their booty onto motorbikes and rode away. The visitors we had had to be evacuated, and we cancelled the bookings we had received, says a staff member at the ranch. That state of affairs is replicated in many other conservancies that run tourism-related businesses and the owners are still counting their losses. Following a drought in the country that has spanned over six months, herders from the neighbouring communities overran the conservancies, leaving in their wake a trail of destruction that the ranchers say will run into hundreds of millions of dollars in lost revenues, destroyed properties and livelihoods. The herders, who have been desperate to keep their livestock alive, say they must find fresh pasture and water, and the ranches are their only hope. We can t watch our animals die. The grass here will sustain them, says Juma Lekuton, who has driven his herd from Baragoi in Samburu County. If it rains, we will leave, he adds. The government has sent in the military and the police to contain the situation, but security concerns abound. The herders say the police have been indiscriminately shooting and killing their animals, putting their livelihoods at further risk. But some observers see the invasion as more than just a quest for pasture. The upcoming elections in August and long-running discontent over land ownership among the indigenous communities living around the ranches have fuelled tensions. Land grab This has nothing to do with drought. It is a violent land grab, says Emuria Lorere, a community leader from Laikipia North. Laikipia, a plateau straddling the Equator with Mount Kenya as its backdrop, is extolled as one of Africa s most picturesque wildlife tourism destinations. It has acres of savannah, riverine forests and acacia scrubland in which wander many species of animals. The landscape is interspersed by small hills, manmade lakes and dams, and rivers. Visitors to Laikipia have described its ranches as a marriage of pristine wilderness, pioneering conservation and haute luxury. Animals from the Ol Maisor Ranch in Laikipia, central Kenya are transferred to a safer area on February 02, 2017 following attacks from herders in neighbouring communities. PHOTO|SULEIMAN MBATIAH After Tsavo in the southwest of the country, Laikipia is the most extensive wildlife haven, a part of the Ewaso ecosystem that is home to a variety of endangered animal species, including the Grevy s zebra and reticulated giraffe. It also boasts half of Kenya s black rhino population. Most of the ranches are family businesses that have been handed down through the generations. But they are an important source of revenues for the county and the country, bringing in millions of dollars annually to the local economy. But this year, this land has become the setting of violent conflict, as thousands of livestock roam the ranches herded by armed men, with devastating economic effects. Overflying the Laikipia plains in central Kenya, the ground below looks tidy and undisturbed. But on keener observation from a helicopter, one can see the black and white spots that dot the landscape. Cattle. Thousands of them, bathed in the mid-morning sunshine, browsing on the golden brown shrubs in the 24,000-acre Sosian ranch. But there is something else that is conspicuous: Smoke billows from a spot on the edge of a hill where, a few hours ago, some buildings stood. A short distance from the smouldering ruins of what used to be a ranch house, Offbeat Safari guide and founder, Tristan Voorspuy, lies lifeless. He has been shot dead. Mr Voorspuy, who ran a horseback safari business in the Sosian Ranch, was reportedly inspecting properties on the land when he was shot off his horse. A month before this tragedy, Sosian Ranch, which combines cattle keeping, hospitality and wildlife conservation, had scaled down its operations after armed herders overran the neighbouring 44,000-acre Suyian Ranch, and burnt down the main lodge used to host tourists. The dozens of raiders stole what they could carry and vandalised what they couldn t. Gilbert and Anna Powys, who own the ranch popularly known as Anne s Camp, could only watch from far, as the looters loaded their booty onto motorbikes and rode away. The visitors we had had to be evacuated, and we cancelled the bookings we had received, says a staff member at the ranch.That state of affairs is replicated in many other conservancies that run tourism-related businesses and the owners are still counting their losses.Following a drought in the country that has spanned over six months, herders from the neighbouring communities overran the conservancies, leaving in their wake a trail of destruction that the ranchers say will run into hundreds of millions of dollars in lost revenues, destroyed properties and livelihoods.The herders, who have been desperate to keep their livestock alive, say they must find fresh pasture and water, and the ranches are their only hope. We can t watch our animals die. The grass here will sustain them, says Juma Lekuton, who has driven his herd from Baragoi in Samburu County. If it rains, we will leave, he adds. The government has sent in the military and the police to contain the situation, but security concerns abound. The herders say the police have been indiscriminately shooting and killing their animals, putting their livelihoods at further risk.But some observers see the invasion as more than just a quest for pasture. The upcoming elections in August and long-running discontent over land ownership among the indigenous communities living around the ranches have fuelled tensions.Land grab This has nothing to do with drought. It is a violent land grab, says Emuria Lorere, a community leader from Laikipia North. Laikipia, a plateau straddling the Equator with Mount Kenya as its backdrop, is extolled as one of Africa s most picturesque wildlife tourism destinations. It has acres of savannah, riverine forests and acacia scrubland in which wander many species of animals. The landscape is interspersed by small hills, manmade lakes and dams, and rivers. Visitors to Laikipia have described its ranches as a marriage of pristine wilderness, pioneering conservation and haute luxury.Animals from the Ol Maisor Ranch in Laikipia, central Kenya are transferred to a safer area on February 02, 2017 following attacks from herders in neighbouring communities. PHOTO|SULEIMAN MBATIAHAfter Tsavo in the southwest of the country, Laikipia is the most extensive wildlife haven, a part of the Ewaso ecosystem that is home to a variety of endangered animal species, including the Grevy s zebra and reticulated giraffe. It also boasts half of Kenya s black rhino population.Most of the ranches are family businesses that have been handed down through the generations. But they are an important source of revenues for the county and the country, bringing in millions of dollars annually to the local economy. But this year, this land has become the setting of violent conflict, as thousands of livestock roam the ranches herded by armed men, with devastating economic effects.