Ethiopian athletics legend Haile Gebrselassie is set to participate in the inaugural Great South Sudanese Run in Juba on April 8. Gebrselassie, who is also part of the organising committee of the South Sudan race, made the announcement in Addis Ababa on Tuesday March 21. The Olympic Gold medallist is the founder and chairperson of the Great Ethiopian Run. The Great South Sudanese Run's main objective is to promote peace in the war-torn country that is facing famine, according to the organisers, who include the Ethiopian Great Run and Ayesheshim Teka, an Ethiopian investor in South Sudan. Some 5,000 participants are expected to take part in the 10km run that will be made an annual event to promote sports, peace and unity. Mr Teka said that the initiative was an added support to the people of South Sudan who share blood, religion, culture and a long border with Ethiopia. He said that the two countries enjoyed cordial ties and a long history of collaboration and partnership. The slogan for the run is, "Fundraising for famine and poverty fighting." The Great Ethiopian Run ranks among the biggest road races in Africa. It attracts some 40,000 participants every November in Addis Ababa. It has also been held in other African counties including Ghana and Liberia, according to Gebrselassie. Ethiopian athletics legend Haile Gebrselassie is set to participate in the inaugural Great South Sudanese Run in Juba on April 8.Gebrselassie, who is also part of the organising committee of the South Sudan race, made the announcement in Addis Ababa on Tuesday March 21.The Olympic Gold medallist is the founder and chairperson of the Great Ethiopian Run.The Great South Sudanese Run's main objective is to promote peace in the war-torn country that is facing famine, according to the organisers, who include the Ethiopian Great Run and Ayesheshim Teka, an Ethiopian investor in South Sudan.Some 5,000 participants are expected to take part in the 10km run that will be made an annual event to promote sports, peace and unity.Mr Teka said that the initiative was an added support to the people of South Sudan who share blood, religion, culture and a long border with Ethiopia.He said that the two countries enjoyed cordial ties and a long history of collaboration and partnership.The slogan for the run is, "Fundraising for famine and poverty fighting."The Great Ethiopian Run ranks among the biggest road races in Africa. It attracts some 40,000 participants every November in Addis Ababa. It has also been held in other African counties including Ghana and Liberia, according to Gebrselassie. 