President Yoweri Museveni says the police force is contributing to the "killing of our people.” President Yoweri Museveni has turned the heat on the police force following the killing of one of its most senior officers and two juniors, asking it to “clean up your house” and warning that the institution is “also contributing to the killing of our people.” While eulogising the fallen assistant inspector general of police Andrew Felix Kaweesi at the latter's home on Monday, President Museveni said that the police force has been infiltrated by criminals. “Kale, you must clean up the police especially the CID,” he told inspector general of Police Kale Kayihura. AIGP Kaweesi was gunned down March 17 a few meters from the gate of his house in Kulambiro, a suburb of Kampala. He died alongside his driver Godfrey Wambeyo and bodyguard Kenneth Erau. READ: Museveni orders increased vigilance after Kaweesi killing President Museveni blamed the rising cases of crime in Uganda on corruption and the lack of confidence between the police and the public. Kaweesi’s murder follows a string of assassinations in Uganda in recent times including that of the army major Mohammed Kiggundu and his bodyguard, who were executed in broad daylight, a deputy director of public prosecution Joan Kagezi and at least 10 muslim clerics. READ: Uganda bombing trial stalls after top prosecutor assassinated READ ALSO: Kagezi murder: Did security misinterpret vital clues in their possession? READ ALSO: Muslims and leaders demand proof as link to ADF claims another cleric’s life President Museveni also accused the police of bungling investigations. “In the case of Kagezi, the evidence was very clear,” he said. President Museveni has ordered the installation of CCTV cameras in urban areas, a project he said would cost Ush400 billion ($110 million). The late Kaweesi will be buried at his ancestral home in Lwengo on Tuesday March 21. His driver, Kenneth Erau is to be buried in Amuria, eastern Uganda on Monday March 20.    Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.