The African Union has faulted South Sudan over the killing of six aid workers in an ambush on March 25. The six were travelling to the town of Pibor, more than 300km away to the north east of Juba. READ: Six aid workers killed in South Sudan ambush The AU Commission chairman Mousa Faki Mahamat, said that the killing was a great violation of international humanitarian laws, adding that the government has a responsibility to protect aid workers. I condemn in the strongest terms possible the killing of six aid workers in South Sudan on Saturday," he said. The government should protect aid workers to perform their duty in a secure environment. Thousands of South Sudanese rely on humanitarian assistance for their survival as a result of a conflict that has crippled the economy. The conflict broke out in 2013 when government and opposition forces clashed. Mr Mahamat said that the AU will keep pushing for the full implementation of the Juba peace agreement as it is critical to the country's stability. "South Sudan's peace remains AU's top agenda, and the Commission wants full implementation of the peace deal by all parties to the conflict, he said. The AU Commission boss said that the lack of peace and security would worsen an ongoing famine in the young nation. The United Nations has declared famine in parts of South Sudan, with some 7.5 million people in need of humanitarian assistance. The African Union has faulted South Sudan over the killing of six aid workers in an ambush on March 25. The six were travelling to the town of Pibor, more than 300km away to the north east of Juba.READ: Six aid workers killed in South Sudan ambushThe AU Commission chairman Mousa Faki Mahamat, said that the killing was a great violation of international humanitarian laws, adding that the government has a responsibility to protect aid workers. I condemn in the strongest terms possible the killing of six aid workers in South Sudan on Saturday," he said. The government should protect aid workers to perform their duty in a secure environment. Thousands of South Sudanese rely on humanitarian assistance for their survival as a result of a conflict that has crippled the economy. The conflict broke out in 2013 when government and opposition forces clashed. Mr Mahamat said that the AU will keep pushing for the full implementation of the Juba peace agreement as it is critical to the country's stability."South Sudan's peace remains AU's top agenda, and the Commission wants full implementation of the peace deal by all parties to the conflict, he said.The AU Commission boss said that the lack of peace and security would worsen an ongoing famine in the young nation.The United Nations has declared famine in parts of South Sudan, with some 7.5 million people in need of humanitarian assistance.