One of the world s largest diamond discovered in Sierra Leone has been put up for sale, the government announced. The 709 carat uncut diamond found by an evangelic pastor earlier this month, is being sold by international tender, a public notice on Saturday indicates. The Ministry of Mines and Mineral Resources pegged the fee for bidding documents at $5,000. Bidders will also have to place a security of $50,000. The precious stone dubbed 'divine diamond' due to its owner's religious commitment, was discovered in the eastern Kono District, home of the two largest diamonds discovered in the country. Persistent rumour It is currently locked in a safe within the Central Bank of Sierra Leone. It will be on public display at the bank from Wednesday through to April 5. The announcement of its sale comes at the backdrop of persistent rumour over it's rightful ownership. While some alleged that Pastor Emmanuel Momoh was not the rightful owner, others accused him of operating his artisanal mining company under an expired licence. The Lebanese Earlier in the week, the daily Global Times newspaper cited an unnamed source in the Mines ministry claiming the diamond belonged to the state because the pastor had been operating illegally when he found the stone. The same paper reported a rivalry between a Kono-based Lebanese tycoon and an Israeli dealer over the rights to buy the stone. The Israeli allegedly offered the influential local chief who handed over the diamond to President Ernest Bai Koroma $2 million in reward if he could convince the latter to sell the gem to him. Impoverished region But Pastor Momoh is believed to favour the Lebanese. One of the world s largest diamond discovered in Sierra Leone has been put up for sale, the government announced.The 709 carat uncut diamond found by an evangelic pastor earlier this month, is being sold by international tender, a public notice on Saturday indicates.The Ministry of Mines and Mineral Resources pegged the fee for bidding documents at $5,000.Bidders will also have to place a security of $50,000.The precious stone dubbed 'divine diamond' due to its owner's religious commitment, was discovered in the eastern Kono District, home of the two largest diamonds discovered in the country.Persistent rumourIt is currently locked in a safe within the Central Bank of Sierra Leone. It will be on public display at the bank from Wednesday through to April 5.The announcement of its sale comes at the backdrop of persistent rumour over it's rightful ownership.While some alleged that Pastor Emmanuel Momoh was not the rightful owner, others accused him of operating his artisanal mining company under an expired licence.The LebaneseEarlier in the week, the daily Global Times newspaper cited an unnamed source in the Mines ministry claiming the diamond belonged to the state because the pastor had been operating illegally when he found the stone.The same paper reported a rivalry between a Kono-based Lebanese tycoon and an Israeli dealer over the rights to buy the stone.The Israeli allegedly offered the influential local chief who handed over the diamond to President Ernest Bai Koroma $2 million in reward if he could convince the latter to sell the gem to him.Impoverished regionBut Pastor Momoh is believed to favour the Lebanese.