For the first time, investors can now trade in gold at the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), after the Capital Markets Authority approved the listing of the Barclays NewGold Exchange Traded Fund (ETF). The ETF is being issued by South African firm NewGold Issuer Ltd, which is represented in Kenya by Barclays Financial Services Ltd (BFSL), owned by Barclays Bank of Kenya (BBK). The head of markets at BBK, Anthony Kirui, said that CMA had approved the listing of 400,000 gold bullion debentures, each equivalent to 0.01 of an ounce of gold. READ: NSE firms get nod to cross-list exchange traded funds in East Africa By Friday, March 24, most listed commodity trading platforms were quoting an ounce of gold at $1244.50. Already Citi Group has predicted that gold prices will reach a high of $1,300 per ounce this year. On March 27, when the ETF listed, retail investors could only place an order of 100 ETF shares from BFSL. Factoring in the settlement date of security transactions (T=3 day rule), it s only from March 30 that brokers will be able to offer smaller shares (under 100) to these retail investors as the secondary market will now be active, having received the shares in their accounts, allowing them to trade. However, anyone who will want to purchase or sell directly from the market maker will have to buy a minimum of 100 shares of the ETF. The listing comes at a time when there has been a discovery of large gold deposits in western Kenya, and Uganda recently launched a gold refinery. Gold is the key foreign income earner for Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo. READ: Acacia gold project in Kenya to kick off in 2022 In its 2016 annual results, Acacia Mining, Tanzania s largest gold producer, announced that it produced 829,705 ounces that year, up from 731,912 ounces in 2015. Gold has delivered consistently higher returns than stocks since the global financial crisis of 2008. The ETF will now allow investors to buy gold without having to physically store it, incurring lower taxes than physical gold and carrying lower risks than equity investments. According to Michael Mgwaba, the head of ETFs at BAGL, the Fund will be based on the real time value of the underlying gold that they track. The NewGold ETF will be denominated in Kenya shillings, and its price will be based on the KES equivalent of the prevailing dollar international market price of gold. The price movement of the ETF will be determined by the price movement of gold. There will be no intra-day price limit on the ETF and there will not be price limits between trading sessions, Mr Mgwaba told The EastAfrican. The ETF will trade in the same manner as a normal equity security and will be subject to similar tax treatment. Disposals of the gold bullion debentures will not attract capital gains tax in Kenya, in line with the treatment given to listed instruments. Each security references approximately 0.01 ounces of gold bullion. For the first time, investors can now trade in gold at the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), after the Capital Markets Authority approved the listing of the Barclays NewGold Exchange Traded Fund (ETF).The ETF is being issued by South African firm NewGold Issuer Ltd, which is represented in Kenya by Barclays Financial Services Ltd (BFSL), owned by Barclays Bank of Kenya (BBK).The head of markets at BBK, Anthony Kirui, said that CMA had approved the listing of 400,000 gold bullion debentures, each equivalent to 0.01 of an ounce of gold. READ: NSE firms get nod to cross-list exchange traded funds in East AfricaBy Friday, March 24, most listed commodity trading platforms were quoting an ounce of gold at $1244.50. Already Citi Group has predicted that gold prices will reach a high of $1,300 per ounce this year.On March 27, when the ETF listed, retail investors could only place an order of 100 ETF shares from BFSL.Factoring in the settlement date of security transactions (T=3 day rule), it s only from March 30 that brokers will be able to offer smaller shares (under 100) to these retail investors as the secondary market will now be active, having received the shares in their accounts, allowing them to trade.However, anyone who will want to purchase or sell directly from the market maker will have to buy a minimum of 100 shares of the ETF.The listing comes at a time when there has been a discovery of large gold deposits in western Kenya, and Uganda recently launched a gold refinery. Gold is the key foreign income earner for Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo.READ: Acacia gold project in Kenya to kick off in 2022 In its 2016 annual results, Acacia Mining, Tanzania s largest gold producer, announced that it produced 829,705 ounces that year, up from 731,912 ounces in 2015.Gold has delivered consistently higher returns than stocks since the global financial crisis of 2008. The ETF will now allow investors to buy gold without having to physically store it, incurring lower taxes than physical gold and carrying lower risks than equity investments.According to Michael Mgwaba, the head of ETFs at BAGL, the Fund will be based on the real time value of the underlying gold that they track. The NewGold ETF will be denominated in Kenya shillings, and its price will be based on the KES equivalent of the prevailing dollar international market price of gold. The price movement of the ETF will be determined by the price movement of gold. There will be no intra-day price limit on the ETF and there will not be price limits between trading sessions, Mr Mgwaba told The EastAfrican.The ETF will trade in the same manner as a normal equity security and will be subject to similar tax treatment. Disposals of the gold bullion debentures will not attract capital gains tax in Kenya, in line with the treatment given to listed instruments. Each security references approximately 0.01 ounces of gold bullion.