An aura of gloom has engulfed the manufacturing sector in Kenya as hopes of industrialisation-led growth fade away due to the dwindling fortunes of leading companies. That the sector is in a slump became evident last week when Nairobi Securities Exchange-listed companies released financial results that showed declining revenues and issued profit warnings, joining a retinue of manufacturers in East Africa that are struggling to sustain profitability. British American Tobacco released full year results for the year ended December 31, 2016 that showed profitability had declined by 15 per cent to $39.8 million. Both Unga Group and Mumias Sugar Company announced that profitability for the half year ending December 2016 would plummet while East Africa Portland Cement Company sank deeper into loss-making over the same period. The depressed performance is a reflection of a sector whose fortunes are dwindling despite the government expecting it to anchor high economic growth by contributing at least 15 per cent to the gross domestic product. The manufacturing sector is stagnant because we have open markets, and goods are moving freely across the world. Therefore, we have to be more competitive as a country, said Phyllis Wakiaga, Kenya Association of Manufacturers chief executive. Just two years ago, the manufacturing sector in Kenya seemed to have taken the corner on the road to a turnaround after plunging from a growth of 5.6 per cent in 2013 to 3.2 per cent in 2014 and maintaining a marginal growth of 3.5 per cent in 2015. Stagnation The sector s contribution to GDP has stagnated at around 10 per cent in recent years, with its total contribution to exports now at 11 per cent. The tide of optimism seems to have turned and the once promising sector which the World Bank had projected would drive growth with the right policies in place is in a slump. Some companies have closed down or relocated to other countries that offer better operating environments. Ethiopia and Egypt have emerged as the key destination for companies winding up operations in Kenya. Electricity in the two countries costs four US cents per kWh and six US cents per kWh respectively, compared with Kenya at 15 US cents per kWh. There are worrisome indications that the manufacturing sector is losing competitiveness, warns a World Bank report on the state of Kenya s manufacturing sector dubbed Anchoring High Growth: Can Manufacturing Contribute More? The report adds that Kenya s manufacturing exports are losing ground in the EAC to exports from India and China while the mortality rate among exporters is high, and there is little dynamism in export relationships. An aura of gloom has engulfed the manufacturing sector in Kenya as hopes of industrialisation-led growth fade away due to the dwindling fortunes of leading companies.That the sector is in a slump became evident last week when Nairobi Securities Exchange-listed companies released financial results that showed declining revenues and issued profit warnings, joining a retinue of manufacturers in East Africa that are struggling to sustain profitability.British American Tobacco released full year results for the year ended December 31, 2016 that showed profitability had declined by 15 per cent to $39.8 million. Both Unga Group and Mumias Sugar Company announced that profitability for the half year ending December 2016 would plummet while East Africa Portland Cement Company sank deeper into loss-making over the same period.The depressed performance is a reflection of a sector whose fortunes are dwindling despite the government expecting it to anchor high economic growth by contributing at least 15 per cent to the gross domestic product. The manufacturing sector is stagnant because we have open markets, and goods are moving freely across the world. Therefore, we have to be more competitive as a country, said Phyllis Wakiaga, Kenya Association of Manufacturers chief executive. Just two years ago, the manufacturing sector in Kenya seemed to have taken the corner on the road to a turnaround after plunging from a growth of 5.6 per cent in 2013 to 3.2 per cent in 2014 and maintaining a marginal growth of 3.5 per cent in 2015. StagnationThe sector s contribution to GDP has stagnated at around 10 per cent in recent years, with its total contribution to exports now at 11 per cent. The tide of optimism seems to have turned and the once promising sector which the World Bank had projected would drive growth with the right policies in place is in a slump. Some companies have closed down or relocated to other countries that offer better operating environments.Ethiopia and Egypt have emerged as the key destination for companies winding up operations in Kenya. Electricity in the two countries costs four US cents per kWh and six US cents per kWh respectively, compared with Kenya at 15 US cents per kWh. There are worrisome indications that the manufacturing sector is losing competitiveness, warns a World Bank report on the state of Kenya s manufacturing sector dubbed Anchoring High Growth: Can Manufacturing Contribute More? The report adds that Kenya s manufacturing exports are losing ground in the EAC to exports from India and China while the mortality rate among exporters is high, and there is little dynamism in export relationships.