Faced with recurrent financial shortfalls, the University of Rwanda (UR) is now looking to get donations from former students in gainful employment. Through the University of Rwanda Alumni Association that was flagged off on March 18, former students will try to link the university with benefactors and will also help mentor continuing students. Robert Bayigamba, who was elected president of the alumni association said members would persuade both public and private entities to help support the four-year-old university. We have been tasked with bringing on board alumni of former public institutions as well as those from the University of Rwanda to help support students through training as well financial donations, said Mr Bayigamba. He added that the association would immediately engage with businesses and individual donors to support the university s initiatives as well as provide internship opportunities to students. The university has more than 50,000 alumni from former public institutions which merged to form University of Rwanda a base authorities believe can make significant contributions to the university s finances. According to Nelson Ijumba, the University s deputy vice-chancellor for Academic Affairs and Research, the potential of the alumni association to mobilise resources is high. Many of our alumnae are currently working in very influential positions, so we are hoping they can help contribute to their former university s physical and academic development. This can be either through mentorship of our enrolled students or by providing employment opportunities for them, said Prof Ijumba. He added that the alumni can also support projects directly such as the construction of university facilities or by mobilising support from their professional contacts and networks. Like many universities in the country, University of Rwanda is heavily dependent on student enrolment and the fees they pay for academic programmes. But, this often leaves the institution with financial shortfalls. Financing of the university s activities was negatively affected by the policy implementing tuition fee financing-based scheme and blocking direct budget support. The funding shortfalls have forced the university to suspend programmes such as the Rwf30,000 ($36) monthly internship allowance previously paid to students, mainly those from poor backgrounds. Although the money would sometimes come after the internship was over, it was still helpful to some of us who got postings far from our school, said Dieudonne Manishimwe, a fourth year student at the University of Rwanda, Huye campus. I did my last internship in Kigali and it was very challenging because I had to pay for accommodation, transport and food. Faced with recurrent financial shortfalls, the University of Rwanda (UR) is now looking to get donations from former students in gainful employment.Through the University of Rwanda Alumni Association that was flagged off on March 18, former students will try to link the university with benefactors and will also help mentor continuing students.Robert Bayigamba, who was elected president of the alumni association said members would persuade both public and private entities to help support the four-year-old university. We have been tasked with bringing on board alumni of former public institutions as well as those from the University of Rwanda to help support students through training as well financial donations, said Mr Bayigamba. He added that the association would immediately engage with businesses and individual donors to support the university s initiatives as well as provide internship opportunities to students.The university has more than 50,000 alumni from former public institutions which merged to form University of Rwanda a base authorities believe can make significant contributions to the university s finances.According to Nelson Ijumba, the University s deputy vice-chancellor for Academic Affairs and Research, the potential of the alumni association to mobilise resources is high. Many of our alumnae are currently working in very influential positions, so we are hoping they can help contribute to their former university s physical and academic development. This can be either through mentorship of our enrolled students or by providing employment opportunities for them, said Prof Ijumba.He added that the alumni can also support projects directly such as the construction of university facilities or by mobilising support from their professional contacts and networks. Like many universities in the country, University of Rwanda is heavily dependent on student enrolment and the fees they pay for academic programmes. But, this often leaves the institution with financial shortfalls. Financing of the university s activities was negatively affected by the policy implementing tuition fee financing-based scheme and blocking direct budget support. The funding shortfalls have forced the university to suspend programmes such as the Rwf30,000 ($36) monthly internship allowance previously paid to students, mainly those from poor backgrounds. Although the money would sometimes come after the internship was over, it was still helpful to some of us who got postings far from our school, said Dieudonne Manishimwe, a fourth year student at the University of Rwanda, Huye campus. I did my last internship in Kigali and it was very challenging because I had to pay for accommodation, transport and food. 