Envoys from the West have condemned the killing of six aid workers on March 25 in South Sudan. READ: AU blames Juba over killing of six aid workers More than 10 Heads of Missions including the US, UK, France, Germany, Italy, China, Norway, Japan, Canada, Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark including the European Union (EU) have issued a joint a statement calling on Juba to investigate the incident and bring to book the perpetrators. The envoys extended their condolences to the families and friends of the aid workers who lost their lives while on duty. The diplomats further urged the South Sudan government to protect aid workers across the country. The Heads of Mission strenuously emphasise that aid workers, like other civilians, must be protected from violence and must never be the target of an attack," the statement reads. To prevent such incidents in the future, the Heads of Mission call upon all armed actors to undertake a ceasefire in line with the Agreement on Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan, and to make genuine efforts to bring about peace, stability and improved humanitarian access. The six aid workers were killed along Juba-Pibor road by unknown gunmen while on a mission to deliver humanitarian assistance to needy populations in Boma State in the Greater Upper Nile region. At least 79 aid workers have lost their lives since the outbreak of the conflict in 2013. The conflict has also claimed tens of thousands of lives and caused mass displacement. Envoys from the West have condemned the killing of six aid workers on March 25 in South Sudan.READ: AU blames Juba over killing of six aid workersMore than 10 Heads of Missions including the US, UK, France, Germany, Italy, China, Norway, Japan, Canada, Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark including the European Union (EU) have issued a joint a statement calling on Juba to investigate the incident and bring to book the perpetrators.The envoys extended their condolences to the families and friends of the aid workers who lost their lives while on duty.The diplomats further urged the South Sudan government to protect aid workers across the country. The Heads of Mission strenuously emphasise that aid workers, like other civilians, must be protected from violence and must never be the target of an attack," the statement reads. To prevent such incidents in the future, the Heads of Mission call upon all armed actors to undertake a ceasefire in line with the Agreement on Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan, and to make genuine efforts to bring about peace, stability and improved humanitarian access. The six aid workers were killed along Juba-Pibor road by unknown gunmen while on a mission to deliver humanitarian assistance to needy populations in Boma State in the Greater Upper Nile region. At least 79 aid workers have lost their lives since the outbreak of the conflict in 2013. The conflict has also claimed tens of thousands of lives and caused mass displacement.