Two people have died of cholera in Zimbabwe and several others have been hospitalised as the southern African country battles the aftermath of floods. Health minister David Parirenyatwa said the cholera outbreak was detected at an area near the Mozambican border. The area where the cases have been reported is adjacent to the border where there is an influx of people coming from Mozambique, Dr Parirenyatwa said on Thursday. There are cases of cholera that have been reported in Mozambique and in the adjacent province of Manica. Meanwhile, one person has died of typhoid in Harare and six others were hospitalised on suspicion that they had contracted the water borne disease. Harare City Council health director Dr Prosper Chonzi said six people were being treated for typhoid symptoms. One person died of suspected cholera after travelling from a town east of Harare. I can confirm that we have two confirmed cases of typhoid, Dr Chonzi said. One person, a man aged 28, died at Harare Central Hospital of kidney failure, which we suspect was caused by delayed typhoid treatment. His relative, a 16-year-old girl is receiving treatment after testing positive, he added. He said council suspected that the victims were drinking water from unprotected sources. However, Dr Chonzi said a typhoid outbreak in a crowded section of Harare that started last year had since been brought under control. On Tuesday, Zimbabwe launched a $200 million appeal for humanitarian assistance after thousands of people were displaced by heavy rains that began in December. The government says the heavy rains killed 2,510 people and left about 2 000 displaced. Cyclone-induced floods last month also caused heavy damage to infrastructure, with 72 dams destroyed and bridges on major roads damaged United Nations resident representative Bishow Parajuli said one of the most urgent tasks for the government and humanitarian organisations was to contain the spread of infectious diseases. Two people have died of cholera in Zimbabwe and several others have been hospitalised as the southern African country battles the aftermath of floods.Health minister David Parirenyatwa said the cholera outbreak was detected at an area near the Mozambican border. The area where the cases have been reported is adjacent to the border where there is an influx of people coming from Mozambique, Dr Parirenyatwa said on Thursday. There are cases of cholera that have been reported in Mozambique and in the adjacent province of Manica. Meanwhile, one person has died of typhoid in Harare and six others were hospitalised on suspicion that they had contracted the water borne disease.Harare City Council health director Dr Prosper Chonzi said six people were being treated for typhoid symptoms.One person died of suspected cholera after travelling from a town east of Harare. I can confirm that we have two confirmed cases of typhoid, Dr Chonzi said. One person, a man aged 28, died at Harare Central Hospital of kidney failure, which we suspect was caused by delayed typhoid treatment. His relative, a 16-year-old girl is receiving treatment after testing positive, he added.He said council suspected that the victims were drinking water from unprotected sources.However, Dr Chonzi said a typhoid outbreak in a crowded section of Harare that started last year had since been brought under control.On Tuesday, Zimbabwe launched a $200 million appeal for humanitarian assistance after thousands of people were displaced by heavy rains that began in December.The government says the heavy rains killed 2,510 people and left about 2 000 displaced.Cyclone-induced floods last month also caused heavy damage to infrastructure, with 72 dams destroyed and bridges on major roads damagedUnited Nations resident representative Bishow Parajuli said one of the most urgent tasks for the government and humanitarian organisations was to contain the spread of infectious diseases.