The slow adoption of modern farming practices among small-holder farmers is exposing Rwanda to food shortages. Officials from the Ministry of Agriculture are concerned that while modern farming techniques are working in areas where land consolidation and integrated farms for food and cash crops had been introduced, small-holder farmers who make up the majority of the country s farming population are still using traditional methods of farming. Fulgence Nsengiyumva the Minister of State for Agriculture recently voiced concerns while visiting Rulindo District where banana, maize, potatoes and cassava yields remain low. Banana is Rwanda s main staple and is grown across the country. However, yields are low because of poor farming practices. In parts of Ngororero, Gakenke, Rusizi, Ruhango and Huye surveyed by Rwanda Today, only a few individual farmers increased their banana produce by adoptting practises such as the use of improved seedlings and fertiliser applicatio. Similarly, maize, potatoes and cassava farms were found on the verge of extinction with owners decrying declining productivity. Except for a section of farmers who showed a lack of technical knowledge with regard to modern farming, the majority cited the high cost of farm inputs, methods of cultivation and manure as a hindrance to adopting modern-farming techniques. Modernising my banana plantation would cost approximately Rwf500,000 given that improved seedlings cost between Rwf500 and Rwf1,000 each, in addition to the cost of digging holes, regular fertiliser application and other activities. It is not something for an average farmer like me, said Aimable Twagirayezu, a farmer in Rulindo. Data from Rwanda s Plan for the Transformation of Agriculture phase III (PSTA III) report cites the slow uptake of modern farming techniques as being largely to blame for the seasonal decrease in agricultural production over the past five years growing at an average five per cent annually against the targeted 8.5 per cent by next year. According to Charles Murekezi, director-general in charge of agriculture development at the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI), this slow adoption is one of the major issues derailing government s efforts towards achieving food security. Experts say the country could grow much of the food it imports if production was maximised through modern farming techniques. While Ministry of Agriculture officials admit the challenges raised by the farmers need attention, Mr Nsengiyumva said addressing their attitude was key to addressing the issue. It is estimated that 90 per cent of the population who occupy the country s 1.5 million hectares of arable land practise subsistence farming. Each farmer in the country is estimated to be living on 0.5ha on average, with increasing population growth threatening to further narrow that space while at the same time impacting food supply. The 2015 Comprehensive Food Security and Vulnerability Analysis showed that more than 70 per cent of food consumed in the country is sourced from markets. The slow adoption of modern farming practices among small-holder farmers is exposing Rwanda to food shortages.Officials from the Ministry of Agriculture are concerned that while modern farming techniques are working in areas where land consolidation and integrated farms for food and cash crops had been introduced, small-holder farmers who make up the majority of the country s farming population are still using traditional methods of farming.Fulgence Nsengiyumva the Minister of State for Agriculture recently voiced concerns while visiting Rulindo District where banana, maize, potatoes and cassava yields remain low. Banana is Rwanda s main staple and is grown across the country. However, yields are low because of poor farming practices. In parts of Ngororero, Gakenke, Rusizi, Ruhango and Huye surveyed by Rwanda Today, only a few individual farmers increased their banana produce by adoptting practises such as the use of improved seedlings and fertiliser applicatio.Similarly, maize, potatoes and cassava farms were found on the verge of extinction with owners decrying declining productivity.Except for a section of farmers who showed a lack of technical knowledge with regard to modern farming, the majority cited the high cost of farm inputs, methods of cultivation and manure as a hindrance to adopting modern-farming techniques. Modernising my banana plantation would cost approximately Rwf500,000 given that improved seedlings cost between Rwf500 and Rwf1,000 each, in addition to the cost of digging holes, regular fertiliser application and other activities. It is not something for an average farmer like me, said Aimable Twagirayezu, a farmer in Rulindo.Data from Rwanda s Plan for the Transformation of Agriculture phase III (PSTA III) report cites the slow uptake of modern farming techniques as being largely to blame for the seasonal decrease in agricultural production over the past five years growing at an average five per cent annually against the targeted 8.5 per cent by next year. According to Charles Murekezi, director-general in charge of agriculture development at the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI), this slow adoption is one of the major issues derailing government s efforts towards achieving food security. Experts say the country could grow much of the food it imports if production was maximised through modern farming techniques.While Ministry of Agriculture officials admit the challenges raised by the farmers need attention, Mr Nsengiyumva said addressing their attitude was key to addressing the issue. It is estimated that 90 per cent of the population who occupy the country s 1.5 million hectares of arable land practise subsistence farming.Each farmer in the country is estimated to be living on 0.5ha on average, with increasing population growth threatening to further narrow that space while at the same time impacting food supply. The 2015 Comprehensive Food Security and Vulnerability Analysis showed that more than 70 per cent of food consumed in the country is sourced from markets.