The failure or the decision not to make recommendations by authors of the Quality Audit Inspection Report on the defects afflicting higher education in Kenya, sums up the immense challenges the sector is facing not just in Kenya but East Africa in general. After three decades of rapid expansion, stakeholders are in a state of deep soul searching as the practices of a runaway higher education system become manifest. From poor governance and funding gaps to outright fraud and capacity constraints, the Kenyan findings speak to the challenges the sector faces elsewhere in East Africa. According to the Quality Audit Inspection Report, most universities have been engaging in unethical and illegal practices such as awarding degrees to non-deserving individuals, graduating students who did not spend the requisite time on studies and expanding enrolment without the requisite physical and technical capacity. The immediate consequences of an education system that allows those practices is that it undermines confidence in the credentials of high education. More insidious however, is the fact that the bearers of such undeserved academic credentials get to be trusted with critical roles in society. Looked at from that context, the high levels of graft in the private and public sectors, the seeming lack of any form of consciousness in the management of public resources by those to whom the responsibility has been delegated and the inability of our bureaucrats to anticipate and solve the most basic problems, should actually not be surprising. The big challenge now is how to break the cycle and undo the damage. A simple mechanical response is unlikely to achieve much. Besides plugging the gaps, there is a need to rethink the entire philosophy informing higher education in the region and how its goals can best be achieved. Poor governance in the sector is a reflection of the general failure of governance and lack of accountability at the societal level. A good starting point would be to institute a culture of accountability among our elite, depoliticise key appointments, shift the focus from paper credentials to practical skills and broaden the choices for education beyond a degree certificate. Reform should also not be rushed either because part of the maladies the sector is suffering today are the result of politically opportunistic policies in the past. Faced with shrinking economies and ballooning populations of young people, governments from the mid-1980s resorted to rapid expansion of lower education while not making adequate investment in higher education. This created a degree of discordance in the system that would later yield barely regulated participation in provision of higher education by the private sector and the commercialisation of public universities. A sober approach that untangles the mess with minimal disruption is now required. Frauds should be spotted and eliminated. Fortunately, but ironically, for every undeserving person waving a degree certificate, there are at least three people who are qualified for the position but are locked out by a warped system. The failure or the decision not to make recommendations by authors of the Quality Audit Inspection Report on the defects afflicting higher education in Kenya, sums up the immense challenges the sector is facing not just in Kenya but East Africa in general.After three decades of rapid expansion, stakeholders are in a state of deep soul searching as the practices of a runaway higher education system become manifest. From poor governance and funding gaps to outright fraud and capacity constraints, the Kenyan findings speak to the challenges the sector faces elsewhere in East Africa.According to the Quality Audit Inspection Report, most universities have been engaging in unethical and illegal practices such as awarding degrees to non-deserving individuals, graduating students who did not spend the requisite time on studies and expanding enrolment without the requisite physical and technical capacity.The immediate consequences of an education system that allows those practices is that it undermines confidence in the credentials of high education. More insidious however, is the fact that the bearers of such undeserved academic credentials get to be trusted with critical roles in society. Looked at from that context, the high levels of graft in the private and public sectors, the seeming lack of any form of consciousness in the management of public resources by those to whom the responsibility has been delegated and the inability of our bureaucrats to anticipate and solve the most basic problems, should actually not be surprising. The big challenge now is how to break the cycle and undo the damage. A simple mechanical response is unlikely to achieve much. Besides plugging the gaps, there is a need to rethink the entire philosophy informing higher education in the region and how its goals can best be achieved.Poor governance in the sector is a reflection of the general failure of governance and lack of accountability at the societal level. A good starting point would be to institute a culture of accountability among our elite, depoliticise key appointments, shift the focus from paper credentials to practical skills and broaden the choices for education beyond a degree certificate. Reform should also not be rushed either because part of the maladies the sector is suffering today are the result of politically opportunistic policies in the past. Faced with shrinking economies and ballooning populations of young people, governments from the mid-1980s resorted to rapid expansion of lower education while not making adequate investment in higher education.This created a degree of discordance in the system that would later yield barely regulated participation in provision of higher education by the private sector and the commercialisation of public universities.A sober approach that untangles the mess with minimal disruption is now required. Frauds should be spotted and eliminated. Fortunately, but ironically, for every undeserving person waving a degree certificate, there are at least three people who are qualified for the position but are locked out by a warped system.