For a painter who appears to be so calm, Emily Odongo conceals a wealth of passion — until she puts brush to canvas. For Odongo, Kenya’s other established abstract painter, art is about the channelling of emotions through colour, the tensions between stillness and movement, textures and form. The other abstract painter? Say abstract and you immediately think of Justus Kyalo, exhibited and collected worldwide and with a huge reputation. His art, often inspired by dance, by doorways, the damaged landscape and by ancient pathways, tends towards the cerebral… a painter whose canvases are cool and thoughtful, tightly controlled. They burn slowly on the wall rewarding a long look before almost reluctantly unveiling their secrets. With Odongo, the paintings are untrammelled, raw and vibrating with energy. In the best of them there is an immediate, visceral hit. But as she is the first to admit, this is a high-risk strategy. For when you throw for a six and turn up a two the disappointment can be great. The only thing to do with a painting that has unravelled and become incoherent is to abandon it and start anew. Odongo has been quiet for a while — her last major exhibition was at the PwC building in Westlands, Nairobi in 2015 — but soon there will be an opportunity to see much more of her work, both fresh from the studio and from a number of private and public collections. The artist will celebrate her tenth year as a nonfigurative painter with a retrospective exhibition of around 50 works, covering a wide range of moods; from the raging explosions of colour for which she is best known to the occasional, perhaps surprising, more contemplative pieces. After studying painting and graphic design at the Buruburu Institute of Fine Arts in Nairobi, Odongo eventually found her way to a firm of design specialists based in the capital where she now works on projects ranging from restaurants and shops to offices and houses. It provides the income she needs while allowing her the freedom to paint. Odongo maps moods and projects her emotional response to the inspirations she finds everywhere — in the landscape, in people, in their conversations, in the juxtaposition of colours, in fabrics and even by watching TV. It often takes up to a month for a concept for a painting to coalesce but instead of working out ideas in a sketchbook she prefers to let the image settle in her mind before attacking the canvas with acrylics, brush and palette knife, employing series of broad, vigorous strokes and liquid sweeps. It sometimes takes her as little as half an hour to complete a painting, or a couple of hours at most. “Sometime the act of painting changes the direction of the work — one mark suggests another — but usually I have a fairly clear idea of what the finished piece will be like,” she explained. When you are painting a person, a landscape or a still life you know the work is finished when all before is recorded, changed or omitted by choice…. but how can a painter tell when a non-figurative work is complete, when there is no external object for guidance? “When you know your game you know when it is done,” Odongo said. She seeks that moment of equilibrium, of intrinsic harmony, when sometimes a single slash of colour or even a dot can lock the whole thing into place. For her, as for many painters, each colour has emotional resonance. For example red is for anger, romance and even passion; blue is calming; yellow speaks of the lightness of being, joy and spirituality; black is for strength and has attitude (“Some of my strongest pieces use black,” Odongo told me); white is purity and cleanliness; green is newness, something fresh and moving with the moment (“I love that colour”); while brown is solid and grounded, like the earth. Although Odongo loves to paint there are other plans on the horizon. Already she helps to mentor emerging artists, offering freely her time and talents, and hopes one day to open a gallery; a place where this new generation can exhibit.And then there is her own development; one in which sculpture looms large. “I love the plasticity of working in three dimensions,” Odongo said, “and I think rather than carving or modelling my sculptures will be constructions — abstracts again, I’m afraid.”   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.