The impasse between the University of Rwanda’s top management and the teaching staff is getting worse as lecturers accuse the bosses of paying themselves hefty salaries, which have strained the university’s budget and left them without pay for five months now. In a statement released by representatives of the teaching staff and seen by Rwanda Today, the lecturers said giving consultant contracts to top university managers is costing a lot. They also said it is likely to affect the university’s prospects of achieving world class standards, which was the objective of merging all colleges into one institution in 2013. They said the combined annual earnings of Rwf700 million ($0.8m) of the Vice Chancellor, the Deputy-Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Research and the Principal of the College of Education has inflated the institution’s budget. They said hiring the university’s top management as consultants as opposed to the past where UR employed locals in top positions and paid them local salaries is straining the university’s budget. “The move has inflated the university’s budget compared with the situation before the merger, when Rectors and Vice Rectors were Rwandans paid local salaries for over 20 years,” reads part of the statement. “I have seen the statement, but I can’t comment because I am one of the people mentioned in the statement. It will be a conflict if I say anything,” said Nelson Ijumba, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Research at UR. Regarding the salary delays, Prof Ijumba said the situation was due to the university suffering a cash-flow problem because of unreliable funding models. He said the money the government gives for students it sponsors has been the institution’s biggest revenue source. However, getting Rwf600,000 ($710) per student for social sciences and Science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) leaves the institution financially constrained because science courses are expensive. READ: University of Rwanda lecturers salary delay The government increased its allocation per student to Rwf900,00 ($1,065) but this has still not helped the situation. “In the current financial year we expect to get Rwf1.5 million ($1,776) for every science student and we are optimistic that this will help solve the problems,” said Prof Ijumba.The government sponsors 23,000 students in total of whom 5,000 students are in STEM and 1,000 are in non-STEM courses, a number he said could ease the university’s burden. The institution has also been faulted by the Auditor-General’s recent report for being wasteful and financially irresponsible. The report said UR spent Rwf240,477,680 wastefully in 2016. A consultancy payment of Rwf170,201,475 ($201,544) which was supposed to go on the university’s account ended up in a wrong bank account. The payee on the payment instructions issued by the Ministry of Health was different from the one on the invoices received from UR. It was later revealed that the account belonged to a former employee of former NUR and the case is being handled by Rwanda National Police. The Auditor-General also noted that there are student receipts amounting to Rwf665 million ($787,459) that have not been allocated, which are recorded in a suspense account in UR’s financial statements, and that there was no evidence to show that the management has reconciled and allocated the receipts to the respective students’ accounts. This, according to the Auditor-General, means some students whose payments have been made may still be regarded as debtors. The report also says UR overpaid an amount of Rwf764,647,045 ($905,456) for transport and per diem for lecturers’ transport and mission allowances, adding that Rwf969,731,250 ($1.1m) was not disclosed in UR’s financial statements in the year ending June 2016. This gives credit to allegations of waste at the university, where sources said money gets lost through badly negotiated tenders and financial mismanagement. Responding to claims that top managers are earning their salaries while lecturers suffer, Prof Ijumba said this is not true. “Everybody is affected by this situation, from the Vice-Chancellor to the lecturers,” he said. Deputy VC arrested Meanwhile, last week, the university’s Deputy Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration, Prudence Rubingisa, was arrested in relation to an investigation into wrongful awarding of undue favours in a contract that led to loss of public funds. According to Spokesperson of the National Prosecution Authority Faustin Nkusi, Dr Rubingisa allegedly gave favours to a contractor during the execution process of a tender, which is against the law.According to reports, Dr Rubingisa was suspected of meddling in a construction project at one of the campuses of the university. He was detained together with Felicien Munyaneza, a managing director of Exert Engneering Group — a construction firm that won the tender in question. According to sources, Dr Rubingisa authorised several payments to the contractor, all totalling to about Rwf1 billion ($1.2m),yet there was no work on the ground to justify the payment. ALSO READ: Rwandan colleges still lack modern facilities   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.