Advertising firms in Rwanda are struggling to stay afloat as the capital's Kigali City Council rejects their pleas to accept both analog and digital billboards in the market. The City’s revised advertisement rules saw all analog billboards belonging to over 15 advertising firms pulled down in November last year to pave the way for the tender that would see digital ones installed. Efforts by the firms to block the move in court and be given a transitional period hit a snag, which saw them unable to compete in the bid. With hundreds of their advertising infrastructure down for months and huge debts owed to clients mounting, the firms see no upside in sight. Managers of advertising firms told Rwanda Today that each firm lost between Rwf140 million ($165,781) and Rwf600 million ($710,490) from suspended contracts in addition to millions more lost due to billboards being pulled down. “Some colleagues closed and moved to other businesses. I personally had over 27 billboards and each one was valued between Rwf11 million to Rwf15 million. “You cannot expect me to still remain in business due to the incurred losses,” said one of the operators who sought anonymity for fear of appearing to fight the government policy. “We are not fighting the decision by City council. We just request to have both analog and digital billboards. It doesn’t make economic sense to make all billboards digital at the expense of our companies and advertisers,” he added. Attempts by advertising firms to have analog billboards in venues like Karuruma, Giticy’inyoni, Kicukiro centre, Kimironko, Nyamirambo and Gakinjiro (Gisozi) haven’t yielded results. This is despite similar calls by advertisers who consider full phase out of static billboards ineffective in a market where digital outdoor advertising doesn’t offer enough exposure and makes it hard to target a specific segment of the audience alongside the cost implications. “We get more mileage on still billboards than on digital ones. We proposed that they put the digital billboards in strategic sites and have analog billboards in other areas. We met Kigali City officials and voiced our concerns,” said a marketing manager with one of the big corporates in Kigali. Operators who spoke to Rwanda Today say having multiple digital billboards doesn’t make business sense because they are not only expensive in terms of installation and maintenance but also consume a lot of power. READ: Kigali authorities say enforcing bylaws on billboards Kigali’s advertising market is shared out among 15 local and foreign firms. They include Pan African Advertising, Alliance Media, Brandactive, Datapro Graphics, Akagera Business Group, AfLink Advertising, Creativity Beyond, Grand Media, Alpha Media, Cides Media, UR multibusiness, Irony Media, Select Kalaos and MRD outdoor. A number of them especially foreign operators are understood to have stopped their operations in the country; others are considering relocating to neighbouring countries; while others consider outdoor advertising in commercial centres in the rural areas. The revised Kigali City advertising rules only allow digital billboards, Tri-vision billboards and directional billboards. Ayen Media, MK outdoor Ltd and X-ite Creative Ltd won the five-year tender to install the billboards in the city’s main corridors. AF Link Advertising already owned three digital billboards. Vice Mayor for Economic affairs Parfait Busabizwa said the city will not go back on its decision to fully phase out analog outdoor advertising. Last year, city officials pulled down analog billboards despite protests from advertising firms. Since then only a couple of digital billboards have come up. ALSO READ: Kigali authorities pull down billboards, ads firms call for stay   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.