The rapid growth of the gorilla population in Rwanda is posing serious conservation challenges and prompting the government to start the process of expanding their habitat. The extension will take up part of the land surrounding the Volcanoes National Park, which is already settled on. The Volcanoes National Park in the northern part of the country is home to mountain gorillas, which are still considered endangered species. “Gorillas are increasing in number but their habitat remains the same. If we don’t expand their habitat now the situation will become more complicated,” said Eugene Mutangana, the lead conservationist at Rwanda Development Board (RDB). He said if the situation doesn’t change the population increase might lead to gorilla fatalities especially infants. Conservationists said the increase in gorilla population is expected because of efforts by the government and other partners. These conservation efforts have greatly increased the life expectancy of mountain gorillas. Mr Mutangana said that by expanding the habitat they will create a safe distance between people and the animals. “The closeness between people’s homes and the national park can easily lead to disease transmission,” he added. READ: Rwanda’s not all mountain gorilla, we have lions and culture too Gorillas share up to 97 per cent of DNA with humans and are susceptible to human infections like flu, diarrhea and others because of their low immunity to these diseases. Even minor infections like flu can be fatal for these animals. According to RDB, the country’s tourism industry is projected to earn about $444 million (about Rwf370 billion) this year, up from $404 million last year— a significant amount of this will come from gorilla tourism. Mr Mutangana said the government will explore available options of compensating those who will be moved. There are about 880 mountain gorillas in Rwanda, DR Congo and Uganda. This number is expected to reach 1,000 when the results of a gorilla census are released. READ: Revenue from gorilla tracking grows by 39 pc   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.