A high court in the Rwandan capital, Kigali, is set to make a final ruling in a case in which five victims who suffered adverse effects from a faulty anesthetic appealed against a Rwf33 million ($39,076) compensation award. The court has set September 14 as the date when Deus Rugigana, Innocent Rubagumya, Mutesi Schola and Angelique Bayitake will know if their appeal against a decision by the Nyarugenge lower court has been successful. The victims want the court to award them Rwf950 million ($1.1m) as compensation. Adverse effects Abacus Pharmaceuticals supplied the anesthetic and Hopital la Croix de Sud (Southern Cross Hospital) administered the drugs. The five victims suffered adverse effects after they were given defective lidocaine anesthetic while undergoing minor surgical procedures at Hopital la Croix de Sud. The managing director of Southern Cross Hospital Jean Chrysostom Nyirinkwaya and officials from the Ministry of Health were summoned by the court on July 20 to explain what happened. Dr Nyirinkwaya said the hospital had no capacity to test the safety of drugs and instead relied on approvals and licenses given to suppliers by the government. “All we look at is if the pharmaceutical company has a certificate of authorisation from the government to supply a particular drug. If everything is in order, we procure the medicine,” said Dr Nyirinkwaya. The Ministry of Health, which was represented by its lead expert on pharmaceuticals, was asked by the court to explain how it issues permits to drug suppliers and how it verifies that imported drugs meet safety standards. The ministry said it relies on certificates issued by the country of origin to approve imported drugs. The national laboratory in Butare released a report after the incident showing that the drug did not meet the required quality standards. READ: Kigali High Court orders fresh medical examination in drug case Negligence The victims said the hospital continued to bill them even after they reported reacting badly to the drug. They accuse the hospital of negligence and failing to meet the standard of care. The court recently ordered a second medical examination of the victim’s current condition and the results are expected to be taken into account in the final verdict.The court had previously demanded that the victims differentiate the compensation they were demanding for the direct effects of the drug and the damage they still suffer today. In the first ruling, Abacus Pharma – the drug supplier — was ordered to pay the Rwf33 million ($39,076) compensation. The drug was tested in different laboratories after the victims reported the incident and there were various results. A Belgium laboratory and the Butare facility found the drug to be defective. An Indian laboratory found the drug to be suitable for use. ALSO READ: Pay up for flawed drug, Rwandan court tells Abacus Pharma   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.