Stanley Cheche is not one to simply throw paint on canvas. “My art requires lot of research and sleepless nights,” says Cheche, who tends to portray socio-political themes. His latest works are on show at the Alliance Française centre in Nairobi, as part of the Not a Big Spoon exhibition that was opened by Joy Mboya, executive director of the GoDown Arts Centre. The painting Ignorance took Cheche a week to create but about a month to research on environmental degradation of the ocean. It is an abstract, mixed media piece with blue, yellow and black colours depicting the ocean, land and pollution respectively. “We depend on tourism but we are killing the sea,” said Cheche, pointing to bits of juice packets, pieces of plastic and a picture of dead fish glued onto the painting to add three dimensional elements. When We Stop Talking is another abstract creation about global conflict that arises when leaders cease to dialogue. Cheche has affixed a child’s shoe and imprinted a small footprint onto the thickly textured red paint, drawing attention to the aftermath of battle when “rescuers find bodies and shoes.” Small footprints and children’s shoes feature in a number of his political awareness illustrations. Last year, Cheche graduated from a Creative Entrepreneurship Course at the GoDown and then worked under veteran artist Patrick Mukabi whom he credits for his success. In another section of the exhibition Cheche shows a different technique showing his ability to work on two styles simultaneously. In Us Vs Them, he has filled the canvas with an abstract expressionist image of a crowd of geometric people wearing multicoloured clothing. In it, Cheche decries division of Kenyans by politicians on the basis of tribe, saying that unity is the answer to ethnic division. In the same theme of politics is the small piece with a wordy title, Everything Forty-three-thousand, Eight-Hundred and Twenty-Nine Minutes, the number of minutes in a month. It describes civic unrest that happens during Kenya’s general election every five years. Using thick blue and yellow brushstrokes he has drawn a graph-like image on a red background that spikes in the centre, the five cowrie shells signifying the cyclical nature of political turmoil. Cheche studied business computing at Makerere University’s business school before pursuing a career in the arts. Not a Big Spoon continues until mid-September.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.