Tough-talking President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto on Saturday hit out at the Supreme Court, questioning the reasoning of its nullification of their win. The Jubilee duo also threatened to “deal with” the Judiciary should they be re-elected in the fresh poll the Kenya's top court ordered Friday should happen within 60 days. “Even if you are so stupid, ask yourself something: The people elected an MCA, results were transmitted, and no one asked questions. Those of MPs and senators were transmitted, and no one asked questions and they have been sworn in. Angry “Those of governors were transmitted, no one asked questions. Now how do four people wake up and say there was a technicality in the transmission of the results of the president only? How?” posed President Kenyatta at State House Nairobi when he met Jubilee and allied parties' recently elected senators, governors and members of county assemblies.   A visibly angry President Kenyatta then threatened to deal with the Supreme Court judges if he is re-elected. “We shall revisit this thing. We clearly have a problem. Who even elected you? Were you? We have a problem and we must fix it,” he said. He insisted that though he respects the ruling of the apex court and was ready for an election, the judgment in itself, he argued, was wrong both in principle and fact.   “The Supreme Court sat and decided that they are the ones with a bigger power than the 15 million Kenyans who woke up, queued in lines, and voted for their preferred presidential candidate. As a Supreme Court, they cannot annul the wishes of the people. And we will revisit this thing,” he said. Opposition He went on: “Look me in the eye and see that me, being desirous of people living in peace, does not in any way mean I am a coward. We are not.” Mr Ruto was less subtle in his comments. “When this is done, we shall interrogate everything, how a Supreme Court overturned the will of Kenyans on the basis of things that have nothing to do with how they voted, on some technicality. Hiyo ni upuzi (That is stupidity),” said DP Ruto.   He accused the Raila Odinga-led opposition, which filed and won the petition, of an attempt to use the courts to push for a coalition government famously known in Kenya as “nusu mkate" (half a loaf). “We want to tell you this: We won the election fair and square. And we are unapologetic about it. We will not succumb to any intimidation from the court to forego our win. We won,” said Mr Ruto. IEBC He questioned the powers of the Supreme Court to annul the elections. “It is not the Supreme Court that is supreme. It is the Kenyan people that are,” said Mr Ruto. The two leaders said they were ready for a repeat poll, and urged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to announce the date of the next poll. They also vowed to block any attempts by Mr Odinga to overhaul the commission. “We have been down this road before. This time, we will not. We have no time to change the IEBC. You accepted the results of the other elective seats in an election that was managed by this same IEBC. Get ready for an election, and Raila, see you at the ballot,” said President Kenyatta.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.