The 1976 Soweto Uprising, in which 20,000 marching black South African school children were shot at by the police, leading to hundreds of deaths, remains one of the ugliest moments in the country’s apartheid history. It is against this the backdrop that South African writer Bianca Marais has written her debut novel, Hum If You Don’t Know the Words. Robin Conrad is a nine-year-old white girl, living a sheltered life with her parents and their black nanny in the mining district of Johannesburg. She loves Enid Blyton detective books and behaves like a tomboy, unlike her timid and well-mannered twin sister, Cat. Beauty Mbali is an African widow in rural Transkei and schoolteacher struggling to raise her two sons. Receiving an urgent appeal from her brother in Soweto, she hurriedly travels to Johannesburg to bring back her daughter, Nomsa, a high school student who is in imminent danger. On the night of the Soweto Uprising, Robin’s parents are killed by black men in unclear circumstances and her nanny, Mabel, leaves shortly thereafter. Devastated, she goes to live with her Aunt Edith, a free-spirited single woman who never wanted to have children. Life with Edith becomes an eye-opener as Robin interacts with a Jewish family for the first time, becomes friends with a gay man and is puzzled about the coloured caretaker, King George, who “didn’t look either black or white.” Fearful of being taken away by Child Welfare, Robin conceals her grief and desperately attempts to hold things together as Aunt Edith slips into alcoholic disarray. Meanwhile, Beauty arrives in Johannesburg on the day of the student demonstration and gets caught up in the shooting melee. She does not find her daughter who, she later learns, has been recruited into the military wing of the African National Congress. Nevertheless, she continues a dogged search that puts her on a collision course with Shakes Ngubane, a dangerous underworld figure who recruits young freedom fighters. Themes The story looks at grief, discrimination, homophobia, anti-Semitism and education as tools of oppression and the role of white people in opposing apartheid. The chapters are narrated alternatively by Robin or Beauty, and Marais artfully navigates between the mind of a muddled child and a tormented mother. The language is filled with profound imagery and wit. Marais admits that writing Robin’s character was more difficult as it meant interrogating her own biased views from childhood. She grew up in a small mining community among white people with racist views and was raised by a black nanny who only saw her family once year. “I didn’t meet a Jewish person until I was 21 years old,” says Marais. Marais has not released the book in South Africa, saying that publishers there are not interested in another apartheid era book. She was born in 1976 and lives in Canada with her husband. The book was on the “must-read” list of the New York Post in June.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.