Tanzania’s opposition Chief Whip in Parliament Tundu Lissu who was Thursday shot by unknown assailants has been admitted to Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. According to Law Society of Kenya (LSK) president Isaac Okero, Lissu arrived in Nairobi from Dodoma Thursday night. "We understand he's still in critical condition. “Members of the East African Law Society will be visiting him today (Friday) in the afternoon," Mr Okero said. Mr Lissu, who is also the chief legal counsel of Chadema (Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo), was shot in the stomach and leg according to Dodoma Chief Regional Medical Officer James Charles. Following the shooting, Chadema party issued a statement condemning the attack. Five bullets Meanwhile, Tanzania's Parliament Speaker Job Ndugai has asked MPs to help offset Lissu's medication bill by donating at least half of their sitting allowance. Mr Ndugai told MPs on Friday that Mr Lissu had been hit by five bullets. He said between 28 and 32 bullets were sprayed on Lissu’s vehicle, a black Toyota SUV, as he arrived at his house in Dodoma at around 1pm local time Thursday. Two bullets hit him on the leg, two on the stomach and one on the arm, he said. “Our colleague is doing fine and he was transferred to the Nairobi-based Aga Khan Hospital for further treatment from the Dodoma regional hospital. His plane left at midnight,” he said. Parliament had earlier made arrangements to transfer Lissu to Tanzania’s top referral Muhimbili National Hospital, but his family and Chadema leadership opted for Aga Khan in Nairobi. “They told us that they chose Aga Khan not because they do not have faith in our hospitals but that they would be more comfortable there. We respect their choice of Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi,” Mr Ndugai said. He said about Tsh43 million ($19,000) would be contributed by the MPs towards Lissu's treatment.   Assailants target lawmaker as he was leaving his Area D residence for Parliament, to attend the afternoon session. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.