You have been at this job for seven months now. Due to a disease, a blazer, and an impatient superior you find yourself in a minister’s office listening to stories about corruption cartels and the siphoning of state funds. The voice-recorder you hold in your hand is trembling the whole time, the little ridges on it are pressing into your palm and there will be red marks going across. After the interview you make your way to the space just outside the ministry where the press-conference will be held. That the inside scoop must always be placed in context is a rule that your editor has pumped repeatedly into your mind, so here you are to find out more than what everyone knows. The minister comes out wearing her signature sunglasses, the play of the sunlight on them creating a kaleidoscope of colours as the glass shimmers and shines. After the few minutes spent in her office, you know the sunglasses are not simply a fashion statement. This is a woman who uses everything to her advantage no matter how seemingly insignificant. She walks up to the pulpit and stops, looking out at you and the other reporters with a calm patience. As if responding to the gravity of a sun, the press-corp immediately stop milling around. You all come closer and squat, because the symbol of democratic dissemination, which is the TV camera, is behind you. Being careful not to overwrite what you recorded before, you take out a different voice recorder for this job and put the one you were using before in your back pocket. The muscles in your right hand shake from the strain of holding the recorder up. Little rivulets of sweat run down your side, your thighs are burning with pain when all of a sudden there’s a certain slackening in your back pocket. Your mouth goes dry and a ringing replaces all the noise in your head. You turn your head, feeling your pocket at the same time, and see the sleeve of a black jacket whizz past. Your attention is no longer on the announcement. In three seconds you are up and out, the hole you make in the huddle already being replaced. The consciousness of where you are doesn’t leave you. It doesn’t seem to have left your prey or hunter, depending on whose side you see it from. He’s in a hurry, but maintaining a stately pace towards the gate. There’s no time to signal to anyone as you follow him. The thought that he may be a member of the state’s security apparatus stops you from signalling to security, but doesn’t stop you from following because adrenaline has taken over from common sense. The colours of grass and asphalt pass by as you pick up speed. He’s not looking behind, but with the unerring instinct of a hunter you know he can sense you. Right leg, left leg, right, left and faster, faster, faster. The metal barriers to freedom of the chase are opened by the guards. They acknowledge him and nod. They nod at you too, so maybe they are just friendly and will not interfere… And he’s off; with 10 seconds on you he immediately puts on the spurs. The suddenness of his running startles the birds in the trees; the pedestrians though, jaded by years of city living, continue to mind their own business. You spring back on your right forefoot and push the earth as far away from you as you can. Now the colours come faster. The red of a dress you send rustling, the anger you read into the face of a man whose newspaper is coming apart, the glee of a little child who turns to watch the chase. He takes a corner ahead of you, and you call on an extra spurt of energy since you can see the maze of alleys he is heading towards and you know if he gets that far he could disappear. Your speed is so fast that you have to pivot your feet as close to your toes as possible, and only a spinning and launching motion can successfully keep you on track. With the grace of a ballet dancer, you maintain your balance but immediately have to jump up because right in front of you is a man sprawled on the ground. He is groaning, but you pass him and keep going without slowing your pace, silently thanking him for being an obstacle to your object of pursuit. A few metres ahead of you the black coat is coming up to full sight. The tilt that was occasioned by the man lying on the ground is fully righted, and a few steps have been gained. The muscles in your chest are trying to pry it open. A puddle of water seems to have come out of nowhere and placed itself in your path. Your shoes are now soggy but you keep on. People on the street are now making space for both of you to pass. Your breathing is tight and controlled. You are counting it down. One, two, one, two. He’s looking back more and more now. Determination keeps the distance between you constant. He jumps onto the back of a boda boda. You lunge for it and grab on to the luggage rack. The shake of the engine transfers itself to you and in a moment of superhuman ambition you try to pull the motorcycle down with all your might. And then you are lying on the pavement. There is a burning sensation down your right cheek that you know will feel much worse later on. You still have your phone with you so you call your boss for the day, the journalist whom the scoop belongs to. Breathlessly you tell him what happened and how sorry you are to have lost the recorder. “Uhm, good job, way to show dedication, but I always record my interviews on my phone as well so don’t sweat it too much.”   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.