Valentine Miheso is an integrated value chain expert. He has been serving as the agribusiness programmes officer at Agra since 2016, prior to which he was the lead financial inclusion expert, a position he held for a year. He is responsible for developing market systems targeting the poor as well as integrated value chains, supporting private companies to work with smallholder farmers and de-risking smallholder farmers to do business with private sector companies in Africa. He previously served as director of operations at Green Bell and was a senior business manager at Techno Serve, which provides business solutions to poverty. Education: Mr Miheso holds a Bachelor’s degree in animal production from Egerton University in Kenya. He has also had training in: Agribusiness management from Purdue University in the US Marking markets for the poor from the University of Glasgow in the UK Project management from Strathmore University in Kenya and NGO management from the United States International University in Kenya and Columbia Business School in the US. Valentine Miheso, the programmes officer for agribusiness at the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (Agra) spoke with The EastArican's VICTOR KIPROP about food security in the region. ---------------------------------------------  Africa’s population is fast growing and could double to 2.5 billion people by 2050, meaning food consumption will also increase. Is Africa prepared? It’s a mixed bag. Looking at current statistics, some countries are on track to meet their food needs, but others are way behind. So, overall, Africa is not ready. Governments have to do data analysis to get a true picture of where they are and where they’re are going, and follow it up with the right investments in the right sectors. Agriculture remains the backbone of East Africa’s economies, contributing at least 32 per cent to the region’s GDP. But the EAC states have consistently allocated less than 10 per cent of their budget to the sector. How can governments be compelled to raise these allocations? Governments are political machineries that make investments with political minds. Agricultural institutions and other stakeholders, including the World Bank, the African Development Bank and Agra should partner and present relevant data to governments and support them to make the right investments and implement programmes successfully. Africa has a significant amount of untapped resources like water and land, yet it remains a net food importer. What are we not doing right? Our major problem is programme development and implementation. Governments need to be supported to design and execute programmes and provide systems and infrastructure to roll out mechanisation, irrigation and distribution systems for inputs. Lack of affordable finance remains one of the key challenges to the growth of agriculture in East Africa as lenders view the sector as risky. How can this be dealt with? We need to invest more in capacity building to help farmers and SMEs develop a value chain proposition including forward contracts with buyers who commit to buy the produce and financial institutions, to help them understand agricultural value chains in order to design appropriate products for different farmers. We also need to develop risk-sharing facilities, including sharing losses. Women are still disadvantaged in terms of access to finance yet they constitute more than 60 per cent of African farmers. How can these financing gaps be plugged? Women remain disadvantaged because lending remains largely collateralised. We need to design non-collateral agricultural value chain financing products that do not insist on land or any other asset as collateral. What are some of the best ways to drive financial inclusion and grow agribusiness across East Africa? First, we need to have discussions with the banking sector and that must include Central Banks on how to develop policies that are conducive to agriculture. We also need to ensure that farmers and SMEs are running profitable businesses to be able to tap into the available resources. Finally, we need to grow value chain financing partnerships to allow access to financial services to farmers. How can East Africa leverage technology to achieve sustainable solutions to feeding its population? The production and delivery aspects of technology have been largely adopted by semi-commercial and commercial farmers. The key challenge is to reduce the access barriers to technology in both aspects by smallholder farmers. There is a need to build a value chain partnership among key stakeholders to ensure that technology is delivered to smallholder farmers in a cost-effective way. Agribusiness has been touted as one of the best solutions to Africa’s youth unemployment crisis. How can more young people be drawn into agriculture? Getting more youth into agriculture is not about getting young people into the farm but how we can generate high quality jobs from agriculture. We need to develop value addition industries to get more high quality products. We also need to generate employment through services to agriculture including developing irrigation and mechanisation solutions, providing consulting and training services to farmers. Last year, the African Green Revolution Forum secured commitments worth more than $30 billion, but critics argue that many times these commitments are not matched with implementation. Your thoughts? Since the 2016 forum, we have been working with stakeholders and tracking the progress of their commitments to ensure that they match investment on the ground. In fact, at this year’s forum [September 4-8 in Cote d’Ivore] we have a special session dedicated to tracking the progress of these commitments and reviewing the challenges stakeholders may have faced in implementation.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.