Patients in the country have found themselves paying more for meals than they pay for insurance-covered medical services after a number of referral hospitals moved to adopt an inpatient feeding policy. Several public referral and private hospitals are compelling all patients and caregivers to get meals from designated hospital restaurants at a cost that many cannot afford. Patients cited the changes as having led to unaffordable meal services, with food bills completely out of reach for low-income families as the services are not covered by most health insurance policies in the country. The patients also said the quality of the food was not equal to the value of their money and they were denied the option of looking for alternatives such as home-cooked food or meals from cheaper restaurants outside the hospital premises. Rwanda Today found that the daily cost of three meals range between Rwf4,700 and Rwf5,200 per day for an inpatient at King Faisal Hospital, the Rwanda Military Hospital and other big private hospitals that have adopted the policy. This means that a patient and a caregiver would need at least Rwf10,000 a day to cover the cost of breakfast, lunch and dinner. The majority of patients transferred to these hospitals from primary-care hospitals in the countryside find the cost unaffordable. “A typical meal bought at Rwf700 outside the hospital costs Rwf2,100 at the hospital restaurant while a small cup of tea costs Rwf150 outside the hospital but goes for Rwf500 inhouse. My family cannot afford this money,” said Isaac Bampoyubwende, a caregiver at the Rwanda Military Hospital. Mr Bampoyubwende said they depended on food delivered by relatives and friends and when he had money he bought meals from restaurants outside the hospital and then sneaked the food into the hospital to be able to feed his patient for a week. The move to bar food from outside the hospital is being seen as an attempt by administrators to protect the business interests of individuals who have been licensed to run restaurants at the hospital premises and are responsible for providing meals to patients who have been admitted and this cost is added to their medical bills. BurdenOnly the University Teaching Hospital of Kigali (CHUK/B) is yet to adopt the inpatient feeding policy and still allows food from outside the hospital. However, for hospitals with inpatient feeding policies, the cost of meals is said to be imposing a higher burden on patients partly because the prices charged by the single providers are not regulated. “Our bill for food alone came to Rwf300,000 over two weeks while in my view, Rwf60,000 was enough to afford the same or even better food elsewhere,” said Naman Ukwigize, whose relative was recently discharged from King Faisal Hospital, adding that Mituelle (the community health insurance) doesn’t pay for food. Rwanda Today understands that only patients insured by MMI, FARG and those brought in by UNHCR, Demobilisation Commission as well as gender-based violence patients have their food bills covered as part of the cost of treatment. This leaves poor patients transferred from rural hospitals to the capital in dilemma. While hospital administrators concede that many patients find it difficult to afford the food bill, they said the policy would not change given that allowing food from outside the hospital will complicate the delivery of medical services. Innocent Twambaze, a social service officer at Rwanda Military Hospital said Mituelle users could apply to be allowed to bring in food they can afford from outside, but not every application would be successful. “The policy was not introduced to make life hard for patients and the majority of them appreciate the food services,” he said.   As it makes progress in the provision of healthcare, the Rwanda is now grappling with the hydra-head of provision of food for in-patients. In an attempt to match care with the quality of food patients eat, major hospitals in Kigali have signed up external contractors to provide meals. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.