Formal policing in most East African nations has not shown consistent success in addressing insecurity and violence in poor urban neighbourhoods. This failure is in part due to inadequate financial resources coupled with a limited number of security personnel. As a result, alternative community security entities have arisen, operating on their own or in partnership with other security agencies. They have slowly filled the gap left by formal policing. Provision and organisation of security takes different forms in diverse communities and locations in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, but in the vulnerable low-income neighbourhoods, there are common characteristics. These are areas with high levels of crime including theft, rape, house break-ins, murders, assault, vehicle theft, and hijacking. That is why security agencies and policy makers generally view low-income neighbourhoods as crime- and violence-ridden. Indeed, one may say, insecurity is a defining characteristic of these neighbourhoods in the popular imagination and public discussions. The other common feature is the negligible presence of the police. The available ones are accused of being insufficient in number, corrupt and untrusted in handling rampant insecurity. Since poor urban communities cannot afford private security services, citizens have been compelled to pursue alternative community security mechanisms in order to secure themselves. Low-income neighbourhoods In Dar es Salaam s relatively low-income neighbourhoods of Changanyikeni sub-ward in Kinondoni district, a community-led security mechanism known as JiraniTujilinde (neighbourhood watch) popularly called JITU, operated from 2000 to 2007. JITU made it compulsory for all able bodied men aged between 18 to 60 to wake up at night to provide security. Later, in 2008, Changanyikeni switched to another mechanism called ulinzi shirikishi (participatory security), which was also adopted by Kigezi Chini sub-ward in Ilala district during the same period. In 2007, after ousting the Mungiki, who had instituted a brutal way of dealing with crime in Mathare s Mlango Kubwa slums in Nairobi, police patrols and engagement in the area subsided and crime once again spiked. This led to the formation of the Mlango Kubwa Landlords and Tenants Association (MLATA), which aimed to provide a community-supported open approach to addressing crime. MLATA has a watchmen committee of 10 members that is responsible for enforcing safety in the neighbourhood. Through the watchmen committee, youth in the community volunteer to undertake neighbourhood patrols at night to deter and respond to incidents of crime. Formal policing in most East African nations has not shown consistent success in addressing insecurity and violence in poor urban neighbourhoods. This failure is in part due to inadequate financial resources coupled with a limited number of security personnel. As a result, alternative community security entities have arisen, operating on their own or in partnership with other security agencies. They have slowly filled the gap left by formal policing.Provision and organisation of security takes different forms in diverse communities and locations in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, but in the vulnerable low-income neighbourhoods, there are common characteristics. These are areas with high levels of crime including theft, rape, house break-ins, murders, assault, vehicle theft, and hijacking. That is why security agencies and policy makers generally view low-income neighbourhoods as crime- and violence-ridden. Indeed, one may say, insecurity is a defining characteristic of these neighbourhoods in the popular imagination and public discussions.The other common feature is the negligible presence of the police. The available ones are accused of being insufficient in number, corrupt and untrusted in handling rampant insecurity. Since poor urban communities cannot afford private security services, citizens have been compelled to pursue alternative community security mechanisms in order to secure themselves.Low-income neighbourhoodsIn Dar es Salaam s relatively low-income neighbourhoods of Changanyikeni sub-ward in Kinondoni district, a community-led security mechanism known as JiraniTujilinde (neighbourhood watch) popularly called JITU, operated from 2000 to 2007.JITU made it compulsory for all able bodied men aged between 18 to 60 to wake up at night to provide security. Later, in 2008, Changanyikeni switched to another mechanism called ulinzi shirikishi (participatory security), which was also adopted by Kigezi Chini sub-ward in Ilala district during the same period.In 2007, after ousting the Mungiki, who had instituted a brutal way of dealing with crime in Mathare s Mlango Kubwa slums in Nairobi, police patrols and engagement in the area subsided and crime once again spiked. This led to the formation of the Mlango Kubwa Landlords and Tenants Association (MLATA), which aimed to provide a community-supported open approach to addressing crime. MLATA has a watchmen committee of 10 members that is responsible for enforcing safety in the neighbourhood. Through the watchmen committee, youth in the community volunteer to undertake neighbourhood patrols at night to deter and respond to incidents of crime.