All is set for the 14th edition of the Dance Week Uganda festival to be held from April 18 to 19 at the Uganda National Theatre in Kampala. This year s edition is presented by Theatre Factory in partnership with Bayimba Cultural Foundation, with support from Africalia. Performances at this year s edition are: Within Us, by Mambya Dance Company to be presented by Oscar Ssenyonga featuring Abdul Kinyenya; Wanainchi, by Spotlite Crew; Life is a Journey, by Atomic Creatures Crew Uganda; Save an African Soul, by Lites Dance Crew; Proud To Be Black, by Babu Dance Project; In Him, by Clay Dance Company; and Together Itweena, by Kyuuka Youth Outreach Dance Production. This particular edition will be exciting, with more costumes, lighting and choreography, and fused dances, the festival director, Julius Lugaaya said. It is an honour and a privilege for Bayimba to partner with its founder and the Theatre Factory to present the 14th edition of the Dance Week Uganda. We are excited and are looking forward to the amazing dance performances and productions, the director of Bayimba Cultural Foundation, Faisal Kiwewa said. Dance Week Uganda is the country s oldest dance festival. It celebrates and promotes the art and diversity of dance, and provides a platform for the development of dance by nurturing professionalism and innovative choreographic practice, fostering connections between Ugandan and international artists, and encouraging presentation of new collaborative works. All is set for the 14th edition of the Dance Week Uganda festival to be held from April 18 to 19 at the Uganda National Theatre in Kampala. This year s edition is presented by Theatre Factory in partnership with Bayimba Cultural Foundation, with support from Africalia. Performances at this year s edition are: Within Us, by Mambya Dance Company to be presented by Oscar Ssenyonga featuring Abdul Kinyenya; Wanainchi, by Spotlite Crew; Life is a Journey, by Atomic Creatures Crew Uganda; Save an African Soul, by Lites Dance Crew; Proud To Be Black, by Babu Dance Project; In Him, by Clay Dance Company; and Together Itweena, by Kyuuka Youth Outreach Dance Production. This particular edition will be exciting, with more costumes, lighting and choreography, and fused dances, the festival director, Julius Lugaaya said. It is an honour and a privilege for Bayimba to partner with its founder and the Theatre Factory to present the 14th edition of the Dance Week Uganda. We are excited and are looking forward to the amazing dance performances and productions, the director of Bayimba Cultural Foundation, Faisal Kiwewa said.Dance Week Uganda is the country s oldest dance festival. It celebrates and promotes the art and diversity of dance, and provides a platform for the development of dance by nurturing professionalism and innovative choreographic practice, fostering connections between Ugandan and international artists, and encouraging presentation of new collaborative works.