On Wednesday, November 11, 2015, Mwaniki Gakio, an employee of Chase Bank, wrote an e-mail sharing the management accounts of Riverside Mews Ltd with the bank s then chairman Zafrullah Khan, its then group managing director Duncan Kabui and Daniel Mavindu, the chief finance officer of Rafiki DTM. The e-mail was copied to Conrad Lukale, who worked at Genghis Capital, Chase Bank s head of analytics Stephen Karumbi, and the bank s then general manager in charge of strategy Johnson Kamau. Mr Khan s response was curt: This is my personal stuff. Can you restrict circulation? Riverside Mews was a special purpose vehicle formed by the two top executives at the bank. The e-mail exchange is among documents filed in a case by Chase Bank against its former chairman, chief executive officer and four senior managers, accusing them of using several special purpose vehicles (SPVs) to defraud the bank of $149 million, leading to its collapse in April last year. Riverside Mews Ltd is one of the firms at the centre of the court case. Chase Bank, now under receivership of the Kenya Depositors Insurance Corporation, filed a suit through its lawyer Philip Murgor, accusing Mr Khan, Mr Kabui, former general manager of corporate assets James Mwaura and former general manager of finance Makarios Agumbi of using their positions to illegally acquire and benefit from the bank s assets. It is now seeking to recover the lost cash. Others sued are Chase Assurance and Ghengis Capital managing director Ali Cheema, Mr Mavindu, former directors Anthony Gross and Ruth Muthoni, and a network of 11 companies that the bank is accusing of profiteering from funds siphoned from it. On February 22, 2016, two months before the bank collapsed, an e-mail was sent by a whistleblower from Laurent Demey to Mr Khan and Mr Kabui and copied to Richard Carter, a non-executive director of the bank, stating that the two bank executives were engaged in fraudulent activities aided by a few long serving senior staff. Mr Khan had stolen funds and used them for personal ventures: Which include Sema, Lighthouse Properties, Genghis with investment in prime real estate properties worth billions of shillings accumulating close to 50 per cent of the bank s shares including a recent rights issue through proxies and shell companies. There are also millions of dollars stashed away in offshore account, the whistleblower wrote, adding that as a result of the fraud, Chase Bank was facing a liquidity crisis. Mr Carter, in his response to the whistleblower, wrote to the bank s management seeking information about the special purpose vehicles, stating that the board was unaware of their existence. I have reviewed Chase Bank s response to the whistleblower s claims with great interest and I would want full details of the bank s relationship with each of the SPVs, as there were no board discussions on the related entities, Mr Carter wrote. It is this exchange that lifted the lid off the fraud claims, when it leaked to the public and caused a run on the bank, culminating in its collapse. The bank is now linking Mr Khan s response to the sharing of the management accounts of one of the SPVs, its shareholding and the properties acquired to build a fraud case, where it is seeking to recover more than $149 million from several individuals. It argues that these SPVs were not part of Chase Bank group. Intended to defraud Chase Bank (in receivership) states that the amalgamation of the purported personal or private properties in these third party SPVs indicates that the entities were not necessarily set up for a special purpose but clearly intended to defraud the bank. Further, the lack of clear demarcation between properties purported to belong to Mr Khan and those that belong to the Chase Bank is indicative of poor corporate governance, the banks says in its court documents. On Wednesday, November 11, 2015, Mwaniki Gakio, an employee of Chase Bank, wrote an e-mail sharing the management accounts of Riverside Mews Ltd with the bank s then chairman Zafrullah Khan, its then group managing director Duncan Kabui and Daniel Mavindu, the chief finance officer of Rafiki DTM. The e-mail was copied to Conrad Lukale, who worked at Genghis Capital, Chase Bank s head of analytics Stephen Karumbi, and the bank s then general manager in charge of strategy Johnson Kamau.Mr Khan s response was curt: This is my personal stuff. Can you restrict circulation? Riverside Mews was a special purpose vehicle formed by the two top executives at the bank.The e-mail exchange is among documents filed in a case by Chase Bank against its former chairman, chief executive officer and four senior managers, accusing them of using several special purpose vehicles (SPVs) to defraud the bank of $149 million, leading to its collapse in April last year.Riverside Mews Ltd is one of the firms at the centre of the court case. Chase Bank, now under receivership of the Kenya Depositors Insurance Corporation, filed a suit through its lawyer Philip Murgor, accusing Mr Khan, Mr Kabui, former general manager of corporate assets James Mwaura and former general manager of finance Makarios Agumbi of using their positions to illegally acquire and benefit from the bank s assets. It is now seeking to recover the lost cash.Others sued are Chase Assurance and Ghengis Capital managing director Ali Cheema, Mr Mavindu, former directors Anthony Gross and Ruth Muthoni, and a network of 11 companies that the bank is accusing of profiteering from funds siphoned from it.On February 22, 2016, two months before the bank collapsed, an e-mail was sent by a whistleblower from Laurent Demey to Mr Khan and Mr Kabui and copied to Richard Carter, a non-executive director of the bank, stating that the two bank executives were engaged in fraudulent activities aided by a few long serving senior staff. Mr Khan had stolen funds and used them for personal ventures: Which include Sema, Lighthouse Properties, Genghis with investment in prime real estate properties worth billions of shillings accumulating close to 50 per cent of the bank s shares including a recent rights issue through proxies and shell companies. There are also millions of dollars stashed away in offshore account, the whistleblower wrote, adding that as a result of the fraud, Chase Bank was facing a liquidity crisis.Mr Carter, in his response to the whistleblower, wrote to the bank s management seeking information about the special purpose vehicles, stating that the board was unaware of their existence. I have reviewed Chase Bank s response to the whistleblower s claims with great interest and I would want full details of the bank s relationship with each of the SPVs, as there were no board discussions on the related entities, Mr Carter wrote.It is this exchange that lifted the lid off the fraud claims, when it leaked to the public and caused a run on the bank, culminating in its collapse.The bank is now linking Mr Khan s response to the sharing of the management accounts of one of the SPVs, its shareholding and the properties acquired to build a fraud case, where it is seeking to recover more than $149 million from several individuals. It argues that these SPVs were not part of Chase Bank group.Intended to defraud Chase Bank (in receivership) states that the amalgamation of the purported personal or private properties in these third party SPVs indicates that the entities were not necessarily set up for a special purpose but clearly intended to defraud the bank. Further, the lack of clear demarcation between properties purported to belong to Mr Khan and those that belong to the Chase Bank is indicative of poor corporate governance, the banks says in its court documents.