Early Wednesday morning marchers started gathering at Church Square and are scheduled to march to the Union Building, which houses President Zuma’s office at lunch time. On Monday, the parties said the mass action to the Union Buildings marks “the beginning of a consciousness movement aimed at educating ordinary South Africans about the consequences of being downgraded to junk status by rating agencies."  While South Africa’s President Jacob Zuma celebrates his birthday in Soweto‚ Johannesburg‚ thousands of protesters descend on Pretoria demanding he step down. The troubled South African leader turns 75 today, and his party, the African National Congress (ANC) has organised a celebratory rally to be held at the Walter Sisulu Square in Kliptown. But in the capital, Pretoria, organisers say at least 10,000 people are expected to join the second anti-Zuma march‚ this time organised by seven opposition parties. The first march, organised by Save South Africa, was held countrywide last Friday. READ: Anti-Zuma marches gather momentum in SA This time, opposition parties - the Democratic Alliance (DA), Congress of the People (COPE), Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP), African People’s Convention (APC) and United Democratic Movement (UDM) have united to put pressure on the beleaguered leader. Ironically, President Zuma’s foe, Pravin Gordhan, the former Finance Minister fired a fortnight ago, shares a birthday with the president. Mr Gordhan‚ whose axing angered South Africans‚ is celebrating his 58th birthday. READ: Now three axed SA ministers resign as members of parliament Opposition parties have dubbed Wednesday’s march "a national day of action." Early Wednesday morning marchers started gathering at Church Square and are scheduled to march to the Union Building, which houses President Zuma’s office at lunch time. During a joint briefing in Pretoria on Monday, the parties said the mass action to the Union Buildings marks “the beginning of a consciousness movement aimed at educating ordinary South Africans about the consequences of being downgraded to junk status by rating agencies." READ: Backlash after Zuma sacks Finance minister EFF leader, Julius Malema said that they salute South Africa for being courageous after successful marches. “Fear is not the answer. We remain united against kleptocracy despite our political differences. We love South Africa,” Mr Malema said. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said the march was not a numbers game but was intended to deliver a message. “Even if we are five the message will be conveyed that Zuma is causing havoc. This sent a chilling message to investors and resulted in our country’s investment status downgraded to junk which impacted negatively on our economy‚” he said. Mr Holomisa urged marchers to ensure the protest was peaceful. “We cannot say we are ousting a rogue president but engage in hooliganism‚” he said. One of the reasons the collective parties said that they want President Zuma out is because his Cabinet reshuffle of four finance ministers in three years has plunged the country into “junk status.” Two international ratings agencies - Standard and Poor's and Fitch - have downgraded South Africa's sovereign credit rating, a move that experts say will lead to high interest rates levied on home, car and student loans, to high food prices and to a bigger fiscal debt.   Civil society organisations gathered in various towns in protest against last week’s Cabinet reshuffle Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.