The opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa), a coalition of political parties bringing together Raila Odinga s ODM, Kalonzo Musyoka s Wiper, Moses Wetangula s Ford-Kenya and Musalia Mudavadi s Amani, is going through the difficult process of choosing who among its principals will face Uhuru Kenyatta in the August polls. The coalition could very well surprise us and emerge from the process as a united front or it could disintegrate into rival formations. Over the past couple of months, the Nasa constituent parties have each been trying to project their man as the person with the requisite qualities to galvanise the country for a win against Jubilee. But in all this manoeuvring, the meaning of an election in a democracy is lost. In its true sense, an election envisages a contest between two or more political formations or individuals with alternative ideologies or visions. An election between two candidates with a similar history, similar ideology, similar vision is, from this perspective, a nonsensical enterprise, for these individuals should really be in the same party. For instance, in America, individuals competing in the primaries or in the main election have dissimilar personal histories, different visions and hold distinct positions on key issues. That is why the media, without raising any controversy, can talk of, say, Trump being to the right or left of Ted Cruz on immigration, fiscal policy or social issues. Likewise, there can be general consensus that Bernie Sanders was to the left of Clinton on many issues of a social or fiscal nature. In the general election, the choice between Clinton and Trump was really a battle of positions on a number of key issues. Additionally, Bernie Sanders was more likely than Clinton, and Clinton more likely than Trump, to bring into the national debate the struggles of, say, indigenous people in Latin America against exploitative Western corporations. In other words, whether in the primary or general election, the contest is less between a Catholic or Mormon, woman or man, Anglo-Saxon or Italian-American than between the ideas these individuals represent, and the national narrative they articulate; a linear and jingoistic narrative or one that is multicultural and complex. Now, let us look at those in Nasa aspiring to face Uhuru Kenyatta. Kalonzo Musyoka served for many years in the Kanu regime. As has been said by many observers and captured by cartoonists, Kalonzo, even when the regime was at its most rapacious and vicious, chose to see no evil, hear no evil and speak no evil. Many think of him as a man with no ideological spine. Musalia Mudavadi is perhaps even more ideologically spineless. He, too, served faithfully in the Kanu regime, including as finance minister during the Goldenberg scam. Even when his colleagues were scrambling to leave the sinking Kanu ship, he agred to serve as vice president. The opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa), a coalition of political parties bringing together Raila Odinga s ODM, Kalonzo Musyoka s Wiper, Moses Wetangula s Ford-Kenya and Musalia Mudavadi s Amani, is going through the difficult process of choosing who among its principals will face Uhuru Kenyatta in the August polls. The coalition could very well surprise us and emerge from the process as a united front or it could disintegrate into rival formations.Over the past couple of months, the Nasa constituent parties have each been trying to project their man as the person with the requisite qualities to galvanise the country for a win against Jubilee. But in all this manoeuvring, the meaning of an election in a democracy is lost. In its true sense, an election envisages a contest between two or more political formations or individuals with alternative ideologies or visions. An election between two candidates with a similar history, similar ideology, similar vision is, from this perspective, a nonsensical enterprise, for these individuals should really be in the same party.For instance, in America, individuals competing in the primaries or in the main election have dissimilar personal histories, different visions and hold distinct positions on key issues. That is why the media, without raising any controversy, can talk of, say, Trump being to the right or left of Ted Cruz on immigration, fiscal policy or social issues. Likewise, there can be general consensus that Bernie Sanders was to the left of Clinton on many issues of a social or fiscal nature.In the general election, the choice between Clinton and Trump was really a battle of positions on a number of key issues. Additionally, Bernie Sanders was more likely than Clinton, and Clinton more likely than Trump, to bring into the national debate the struggles of, say, indigenous people in Latin America against exploitative Western corporations. In other words, whether in the primary or general election, the contest is less between a Catholic or Mormon, woman or man, Anglo-Saxon or Italian-American than between the ideas these individuals represent, and the national narrative they articulate; a linear and jingoistic narrative or one that is multicultural and complex.Now, let us look at those in Nasa aspiring to face Uhuru Kenyatta. Kalonzo Musyoka served for many years in the Kanu regime. As has been said by many observers and captured by cartoonists, Kalonzo, even when the regime was at its most rapacious and vicious, chose to see no evil, hear no evil and speak no evil. Many think of him as a man with no ideological spine.Musalia Mudavadi is perhaps even more ideologically spineless. He, too, served faithfully in the Kanu regime, including as finance minister during the Goldenberg scam. Even when his colleagues were scrambling to leave the sinking Kanu ship, he agred to serve as vice president.