Chef Shimmy Selo is in Nairobi for the first time. He is the head chef at Sunnyside Park Hotel in Johannesburg. I spoke to him about his journey to becoming a chef, and what he has in store for us at the South African Food Festival to be held at the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Nairobi from April 24 to 28. What would you say is typical of South African food? South African food is typically cooked on an open fire, in a three-legged pot, stewed or boiled. it comprises mostly meats. The vegetables most commonly eaten are beetroot and carrots, and for starch it is potatoes and mealie pap (cornflour). Mealie pap can be had as porridge for breakfast, soft pap for lunch, and stiff pap that goes well with the braai for dinner. Traditionally, meat was roasted over an open fire, pieces on a stick. Now we have the braai, which is Afrikaans for barbecue. It originated with the Afrikaner people, but has since been adopted by South Africans of many ethnic backgrounds. What was your journey to becoming a chef? I finished high school in 1998. I come from Rustenberg, the area where they have platinum mines. it is about three hours from Johannesburg. Most people from the area either farm or work in the mines. The idea of becoming a chef was totally unheard of. My three elder brothers all work in the mines. My father expected me to do the same. I used to watch chefs on TV. I was interested, but not completely sure that this was what I wanted to do. So, I ended up taking and completing a course in electrical engineering, but I did not want to pursue a career in it. I did not feel it. I had told my cousin, who was at Vaal University of Technology, that I was interested in becoming a chef. He asked me to visit him for about a week, so he could take me around the university, to meet the deans who gave me some advice on how to become a chef. Unfortunately, the university did not offer the chef s course, but only food and beverages. I told my dad what I wanted to do, and he was not happy with my decision. After all, he had paid for the electrical engineering course, and now it seemed that that had been a waste of his money. So I figured I was on my own. I wanted to join the HTA School of Culinary Art in Johannesburg, but the fees were too high, I couldn t afford them. So I went to Vaal University in 2004, and did the food and beverage course, and finished in 2006. I did my internship at Southern Sun in Sandton and worked there for six years, rising through the ranks to sous chef tournant, then went on to work at other hotels. Now I m the head chef at Sunnyside Park Hotel in Johannesburg. What do you have in store for us next week at the food festival? There will be some chakalaka, that s a salad with mostly carrots and beetroot, which is spicy. I also plan to cook some mealie pap, oxtail potjie,umfino (sauted spinach), fish potjie, umgusho (samp and beans), braised Springbok, amanqina (cow hoof), warthog chops, and oustleitjies (cinnamon dumplings). Chef Shimmy Selo is in Nairobi for the first time. He is the head chef at Sunnyside Park Hotel in Johannesburg. I spoke to him about his journey to becoming a chef, and what he has in store for us at the South African Food Festival to be held at the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Nairobi from April 24 to 28. What would you say is typical of South African food? South African food is typically cooked on an open fire, in a three-legged pot, stewed or boiled. it comprises mostly meats. The vegetables most commonly eaten are beetroot and carrots, and for starch it is potatoes and mealie pap (cornflour). Mealie pap can be had as porridge for breakfast, soft pap for lunch, and stiff pap that goes well with the braai for dinner.Traditionally, meat was roasted over an open fire, pieces on a stick. Now we have the braai, which is Afrikaans for barbecue. It originated with the Afrikaner people, but has since been adopted by South Africans of many ethnic backgrounds. What was your journey to becoming a chef? I finished high school in 1998. I come from Rustenberg, the area where they have platinum mines. it is about three hours from Johannesburg. Most people from the area either farm or work in the mines. The idea of becoming a chef was totally unheard of. My three elder brothers all work in the mines. My father expected me to do the same. I used to watch chefs on TV. I was interested, but not completely sure that this was what I wanted to do.So, I ended up taking and completing a course in electrical engineering, but I did not want to pursue a career in it. I did not feel it. I had told my cousin, who was at Vaal University of Technology, that I was interested in becoming a chef. He asked me to visit him for about a week, so he could take me around the university, to meet the deans who gave me some advice on how to become a chef. Unfortunately, the university did not offer the chef s course, but only food and beverages.I told my dad what I wanted to do, and he was not happy with my decision. After all, he had paid for the electrical engineering course, and now it seemed that that had been a waste of his money. So I figured I was on my own.I wanted to join the HTA School of Culinary Art in Johannesburg, but the fees were too high, I couldn t afford them. So I went to Vaal University in 2004, and did the food and beverage course, and finished in 2006. I did my internship at Southern Sun in Sandton and worked there for six years, rising through the ranks to sous chef tournant, then went on to work at other hotels. Now I m the head chef at Sunnyside Park Hotel in Johannesburg. What do you have in store for us next week at the food festival? There will be some chakalaka, that s a salad with mostly carrots and beetroot, which is spicy.I also plan to cook some mealie pap, oxtail potjie,umfino (sauted spinach), fish potjie, umgusho (samp and beans), braised Springbok, amanqina (cow hoof), warthog chops, and oustleitjies (cinnamon dumplings).