Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has suspended the Director-General of National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Mr Ayo Oke, and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr David Babachir Lawal. They are suspended pending the outcome of corruption allegations investigation against them. The president also ordered an investigation into the allegations of violations of the law against Mr Lawal, in the award of contracts under the Presidential Initiative on the North East (PINE). The Senate had set up a committee to investigate Mr Lawal and found him guilty of using proxy companies and suspicious amounts of money to clear the bush for the settlement of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the northeast. The discovery Mr Lawal refused to appear before the committee and the Senate subsequently asked President Buhari to sack him. The president also ordered an investigation into the discovery of $53 million foreign and local currencies by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The money was found in a residential apartment at Osborne Towers, Ikoyi, Lagos, which the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) made a claim to. The organisation explained that the money was given to it by former President Goodluck Jonathan. But the money was discovered in Mr Oke's private apartment. Security procedure The president's Media and Publicity Adviser, Mr Femi Adesina, said in a statement on Wednesday that the former also ordered investigation on how the funds were made available to the NIA. The investigation would also establish whether there was a breach of the law or security procedure in obtaining custody of the funds. A three-man committee comprising the Attorney-General of the Federation, Justice minister and the National Security Adviser, headed by the Vice-President, is to conduct both investigations. The committee is to submit its report to the President within 14 days. Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has suspended the Director-General of National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Mr Ayo Oke, and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr David Babachir Lawal.They are suspended pending the outcome of corruption allegations investigation against them.The president also ordered an investigation into the allegations of violations of the law against Mr Lawal, in the award of contracts under the Presidential Initiative on the North East (PINE).The Senate had set up a committee to investigate Mr Lawal and found him guilty of using proxy companies and suspicious amounts of money to clear the bush for the settlement of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the northeast.The discoveryMr Lawal refused to appear before the committee and the Senate subsequently asked President Buhari to sack him.The president also ordered an investigation into the discovery of $53 million foreign and local currencies by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).The money was found in a residential apartment at Osborne Towers, Ikoyi, Lagos, which the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) made a claim to.The organisation explained that the money was given to it by former President Goodluck Jonathan.But the money was discovered in Mr Oke's private apartment.Security procedureThe president's Media and Publicity Adviser, Mr Femi Adesina, said in a statement on Wednesday that the former also ordered investigation on how the funds were made available to the NIA.The investigation would also establish whether there was a breach of the law or security procedure in obtaining custody of the funds.A three-man committee comprising the Attorney-General of the Federation, Justice minister and the National Security Adviser, headed by the Vice-President, is to conduct both investigations.The committee is to submit its report to the President within 14 days.