Over the past 10 years or so, there has been a feeling among growing numbers of Ugandans that the confrontations between President Yoweri Museveni s government and its opponents, often violent and destructive, are harmful to the interests of both the country and all who live in it. Proponents of this view argue that the country will be best served by the two sides joining hands in identifying a common agenda to pursue collectively for the good of everybody. As of now, the determination by Museveni s opponents to wrest power from him and his own evident determination to hang on serve only to distract both sides from focusing on those things they could do together to sort out the myriad challenges the country faces. All one has to see to appreciate this is the arsenal of tools of coercion the government has purchased in recent times for intimidating and suppressing its opponents. A change in approach from contestation to consensus building would save valuable resources from going to schemes designed to keep troublemakers in check and instead divert them to those intended to promote wellbeing and prosperity. It is no secret that supporters of both sides, senior officials of the respective political organisations included, agree on the need to look for and find common ground on what needs to happen to produce the peaceful, prosperous and democratic Uganda they all claim to want to build, in which equality of opportunity will one day be taken for granted. For those who listen to them, the question has always been why, if it is what they all want, they do not find a way of doing it together rather than fighting about it. And so it came as excellent news when, mid-week, news broke that talks were on. It was especially significant that the announcement came from opposition quarters known for their steadfast belligerence. Very quickly, the news spread like wildfire through social media. That pointed to an unsuspected popular enthusiasm for constructive engagement among the often bad-tempered and quarrelsome protagonists. However, there was also something suspicious about the news, something that gave it an April Fool s day flavour, although we were already several days down the line from 1st April. Three things stood out: One was that the news had come from Museveni s arch-nemesis, Dr Kiiza Besigye, at least according to the media. Till now, at least in his public pronouncements, Dr Besigye has always ruled out talking to Museveni, except about only two things: Revisiting the 2016 presidential elections; and his retirement. Dialogue about the elections would seek to establish, through a transparent audit, the actual winner. Besigye claims he won. Meanwhile, talks about Museveni s departure would apparently help calm tensions and enable those who seek to replace him to prepare so that the country avoids the chaos that some predict will follow were he to leave involuntarily, even worse, suddenly. That Besigye, who stepped down from his party s leadership, would be the one to make such a momentous announcement and not its current president was rather odd. Over the past 10 years or so, there has been a feeling among growing numbers of Ugandans that the confrontations between President Yoweri Museveni s government and its opponents, often violent and destructive, are harmful to the interests of both the country and all who live in it.Proponents of this view argue that the country will be best served by the two sides joining hands in identifying a common agenda to pursue collectively for the good of everybody.As of now, the determination by Museveni s opponents to wrest power from him and his own evident determination to hang on serve only to distract both sides from focusing on those things they could do together to sort out the myriad challenges the country faces.All one has to see to appreciate this is the arsenal of tools of coercion the government has purchased in recent times for intimidating and suppressing its opponents.A change in approach from contestation to consensus building would save valuable resources from going to schemes designed to keep troublemakers in check and instead divert them to those intended to promote wellbeing and prosperity. It is no secret that supporters of both sides, senior officials of the respective political organisations included, agree on the need to look for and find common ground on what needs to happen to produce the peaceful, prosperous and democratic Uganda they all claim to want to build, in which equality of opportunity will one day be taken for granted.For those who listen to them, the question has always been why, if it is what they all want, they do not find a way of doing it together rather than fighting about it. And so it came as excellent news when, mid-week, news broke that talks were on. It was especially significant that the announcement came from opposition quarters known for their steadfast belligerence. Very quickly, the news spread like wildfire through social media. That pointed to an unsuspected popular enthusiasm for constructive engagement among the often bad-tempered and quarrelsome protagonists. However, there was also something suspicious about the news, something that gave it an April Fool s day flavour, although we were already several days down the line from 1st April. Three things stood out: One was that the news had come from Museveni s arch-nemesis, Dr Kiiza Besigye, at least according to the media. Till now, at least in his public pronouncements, Dr Besigye has always ruled out talking to Museveni, except about only two things: Revisiting the 2016 presidential elections; and his retirement. Dialogue about the elections would seek to establish, through a transparent audit, the actual winner. Besigye claims he won. Meanwhile, talks about Museveni s departure would apparently help calm tensions and enable those who seek to replace him to prepare so that the country avoids the chaos that some predict will follow were he to leave involuntarily, even worse, suddenly.That Besigye, who stepped down from his party s leadership, would be the one to make such a momentous announcement and not its current president was rather odd.