The South Sudanese government is signing deals with suspected wheelerdealers, some of whom may be out to take advantage of Juba s financial crisis. In less than four months, President Salva Kiir, who is presiding over a cashstrapped economy torn apart by a conflict that is teetering towards genocide, has received offers from agents of established companies, organisations and non-descript financing groups, all dangling deals worth billions of dollars that critics warn will mortgage the country and its resources for generations. Critics in Juba worry that President Kiir s desperation to get cash may push him into the hands of outright conmen and that even genuine companies could take advantage to secure sweet deals for themselves while leaving the country with peanuts. International fixers are reportedly operating out of the regional capitals of Kampala, Nairobi, Addis Ababa as well as other African cities and some European capitals, setting up meetings between the president himself and other top government officials the Juba teams are only too willing to go along. First in was the Luxembourg-based investment fund Suiss Finance Luxembourg AG, which towards the end of 2016 made an offer of 10 billion ($10.5 billion) that could rise to 100 billion ($105 billion), to finance projects through joint ventures in infrastructure, transportation, oil and energy. READ:Hope for South Sudan as fund offers President Kiir $105b budget support President Kiir's critics and Sudan observers immediately flagged this deal after it was publicised in the media. A South Africa-based South Sudan academic familiar with goings-on in Africa s youngest country warned the deal was bogus. Refusing to give his name for fear of endangering his family still trapped in the intricate war in the south of the country, the academic challenged journalists to dig deeper into the deal. Investigations conducted by this newspaper revealed that shadowy Kampala businessmen had brokered the deal but efforts to get one of the principals to speak on it were futile as multiple phone numbers given as his contacts were unavailable. On March 6, Juba signed a deal with Oranto Petroleum to invest $500 million in the country to develop South Sudan s oil in Block B3 covering 25,150 square kilometres, paving the way for the oil company s comprehensive exploration campaign, starting immediately. South Sudan s Ministry of Petroleum and Oranto Petroleum signed the exploration and production sharing agreement for the block, in which Oranto will be the technical operator and 90 per cent shareholder, while the Juba government s Nile Petroleum (Nilepet) takes a 10 per cent stake. The EastAfrican could not confirm with the South Sudanese embassy in Kampala, if the cash from any of these deals has come through as Ambassador Samuel Luate was reportedly out, attending a meeting, and the only official in the mission was not in line to speak about the matter. Mr Luate s office promised to respond later, but by press time had not returned our calls. Another deal on oil and gas collaboration was signed on March 20, this time with Equatorial Guinea, to share knowledge and resources, promote investment and for Equatorial Guinea to provide training to South Sudanese personnel and advise on licensing as Juba s current licensing round nears conclusion. READ:South Sudan, Equatorial Guinea seal oil, gas deal The South Sudanese government is signing deals with suspected wheelerdealers, some of whom may be out to take advantage of Juba s financial crisis. In less than four months, President Salva Kiir, who is presiding over a cashstrapped economy torn apart by a conflict that is teetering towards genocide, has received offers from agents of established companies, organisations and non-descript financing groups, all dangling deals worth billions of dollars that critics warn will mortgage the country and its resources for generations.Critics in Juba worry that President Kiir s desperation to get cash may push him into the hands of outright conmen and that even genuine companies could take advantage to secure sweet deals for themselves while leaving the country with peanuts. International fixers are reportedly operating out of the regional capitals of Kampala, Nairobi, Addis Ababa as well as other African cities and some European capitals, setting up meetings between the president himself and other top government officials the Juba teams are only too willing to go along. First in was the Luxembourg-based investment fund Suiss Finance Luxembourg AG, which towards the end of 2016 made an offer of 10 billion ($10.5 billion) that could rise to 100 billion ($105 billion), to finance projects through joint ventures in infrastructure, transportation, oil and energy. President Kiir's critics and Sudan observers immediately flagged this deal after it was publicised in the media. A South Africa-based South Sudan academic familiar with goings-on in Africa s youngest country warned the deal was bogus. Refusing to give his name for fear of endangering his family still trapped in the intricate war in the south of the country, the academic challenged journalists to dig deeper into the deal. Investigations conducted by this newspaper revealed that shadowy Kampala businessmen had brokered the deal but efforts to get one of the principals to speak on it were futile as multiple phone numbers given as his contacts were unavailable. On March 6, Juba signed a deal with Oranto Petroleum to invest $500 million in the country to develop South Sudan s oil in Block B3 covering 25,150 square kilometres, paving the way for the oil company s comprehensive exploration campaign, starting immediately. South Sudan s Ministry of Petroleum and Oranto Petroleum signed the exploration and production sharing agreement for the block, in which Oranto will be the technical operator and 90 per cent shareholder, while the Juba government s Nile Petroleum (Nilepet) takes a 10 per cent stake.The EastAfrican could not confirm with the South Sudanese embassy in Kampala, if the cash from any of these deals has come through as Ambassador Samuel Luate was reportedly out, attending a meeting, and the only official in the mission was not in line to speak about the matter. Mr Luate s office promised to respond later, but by press time had not returned our calls. Another deal on oil and gas collaboration was signed on March 20, this time with Equatorial Guinea, to share knowledge and resources, promote investment and for Equatorial Guinea to provide training to South Sudanese personnel and advise on licensing as Juba s current licensing round nears conclusion.