A floor scattered with clothes, books, plastic bottles, dairy, eyebrushes, scarf and a handbag, introduces the first scene. A young woman comes up from the ground then slowly lifts herself up to her feet. Then using different body movements, she moves across the stage. She holds the audience captive with her movements. The show is a contemporary dance performance, which was held at Kigali Impact Hub. Contemporary dance has been in existence in the country for about six years now. A few young people have taken it up as art form, but it remains a mystery to many. The second performances featured a dance titled Flashes. The performer is Moouhdi Gatete, a young man, who storms onto the stage while dancing to South African Kwaito beats. He maintains constant eye contact with his audience as he dances, while his long robes drag along rhythmically to his moves. His performance lasts 10 minutes. Next on stage is Abdoul Mujyambere who s solo piece is titled M moire. His dance moves start off slow then gradually get more vigorous. His dance moves are integrated with sounds, first from what seems like a market environment, then by a soulful female voice, then by inanga strums. The performance, which Mujyambere choreographed, portrays a young man struggling to make his voice heard and to find his place in society, as his country changes at an overwhelming speed. The M moire, which has been presented over ten times in Kigali, captures the body s flexibility through movement. Mujyambere seeks to preserve Afro-contemporary dance and African rituals, which he considers to be part of the identity of an African contemporary dancer. A contemporary dance performance held at the at Kigali Impact Hub Abdoul Mujyambere created and choreographed the three dance presentations for the show. PHOTO| ANDREW I KAZIBWE Most contemporary dance performances are abstract, and require real concentration. In a dance performance we don t talk and express ourselves through movement and the audience interpret meaning, said Mujyambere. A floor scattered with clothes, books, plastic bottles, dairy, eyebrushes, scarf and a handbag, introduces the first scene. A young woman comes up from the ground then slowly lifts herself up to her feet. Then using different body movements, she moves across the stage. She holds the audience captive with her movements. The show is a contemporary dance performance, which was held at Kigali Impact Hub. Contemporary dance has been in existence in the country for about six years now. A few young people have taken it up as art form, but it remains a mystery to many. The second performances featured a dance titled Flashes. The performer is Moouhdi Gatete, a young man, who storms onto the stage while dancing to South African Kwaito beats.He maintains constant eye contact with his audience as he dances, while his long robes drag along rhythmically to his moves. His performance lasts 10 minutes. Next on stage is Abdoul Mujyambere who s solo piece is titled M moire.His dance moves start off slow then gradually get more vigorous. His dance moves are integrated with sounds, first from what seems like a market environment, then by a soulful female voice, then by inanga strums. The performance, which Mujyambere choreographed, portrays a young man struggling to make his voice heard and to find his place in society, as his country changes at an overwhelming speed.The M moire, which has been presented over ten times in Kigali, captures the body s flexibility through movement. Mujyambere seeks to preserve Afro-contemporary dance and African rituals, which he considers to be part of the identity of an African contemporary dancer.A contemporary dance performance held at the at Kigali Impact Hub Abdoul Mujyambere created and choreographed the three dance presentations for the show. PHOTO| ANDREW I KAZIBWEMost contemporary dance performances are abstract, and require real concentration. In a dance performance we don t talk and express ourselves through movement and the audience interpret meaning, said Mujyambere.