Since 2015, four of the eight species of vultures found in Kenya have been listed as critically endangered by the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN). This means they are one step short of becoming extinct. High on the cliffs of Kwenia, 95km south of Nairobi, lives a colony of one of the Ruppell s vulture. The estimated global population of Ruppell s vulture is 22,000. Ruppell s vultures breed in steep cliffs, said Dr Darcy Ogada of The Peregrine Fund, a raptor specialist for over two decades. Any disturbance and they leave, like it happened at Hell s Gate. Kwenia is one of the few sites in the world where the vultures breed. But now, the critical nesting colony will be heavily impacted by a proposed wind farm to be constructed across a major migratory flight path for birds. By 11am, most of the vultures fly off to the Maasai Mara and the Athi-Kapiti plains, to scavenge on carrion and bring back food for their young. These vultures are one of the largest species found in East and central Africa, but their populations are declining fast. Initially it was due to habitat loss, poisoning and in some places to use in witch-craft. Now it s the proposed wind farms and associated power lines as Kenya seeks to develop clean, green renewable energy. Wind farms can be placed at inappropriate sites, like in the flight paths of birds. The rotating blades of the turbines need the wind to power them, as do raptors and migratory birds that fly to Africa to escape the winter in Europe and Asia. Path for birds The Rift Valley is a major path for birds of many species. Tracking units fitted on vultures within 25km of Kwenia show them flying at turbine height, placing them at high risk of being cut up by the rotating blades. Every single bird that was tagged in the Mara between 2009 and 2011, says Ogada used the flyway. Of the 14 Ruppell s vultures tagged, 50 per cent fly in the area of the proposed wind farm. High on the cliffs of Kwenia, 95km south of Nairobi, lives a colony of one of the Ruppell s vulture. Kwenia is one of the few sites in the world where the vultures breed but it is now threatened by a proposed wind farm to be constructed across a major migratory flight path for birds. PHOTO| MUNIR VIRANI In addition, the African White-backed Vulture, also listed as critically endangered also lives in the vicinity of the proposed wind farm site. Since 2015, four of the eight species of vultures found in Kenya have been listed as critically endangered by the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN). This means they are one step short of becoming extinct.High on the cliffs of Kwenia, 95km south of Nairobi, lives a colony of one of the Ruppell s vulture. The estimated global population of Ruppell s vulture is 22,000. Ruppell s vultures breed in steep cliffs, said Dr Darcy Ogada of The Peregrine Fund, a raptor specialist for over two decades. Any disturbance and they leave, like it happened at Hell s Gate. Kwenia is one of the few sites in the world where the vultures breed. But now, the critical nesting colony will be heavily impacted by a proposed wind farm to be constructed across a major migratory flight path for birds.By 11am, most of the vultures fly off to the Maasai Mara and the Athi-Kapiti plains, to scavenge on carrion and bring back food for their young. These vultures are one of the largest species found in East and central Africa, but their populations are declining fast. Initially it was due to habitat loss, poisoning and in some places to use in witch-craft. Now it s the proposed wind farms and associated power lines as Kenya seeks to develop clean, green renewable energy.Wind farms can be placed at inappropriate sites, like in the flight paths of birds. The rotating blades of the turbines need the wind to power them, as do raptors and migratory birds that fly to Africa to escape the winter in Europe and Asia. Path for birds The Rift Valley is a major path for birds of many species. Tracking units fitted on vultures within 25km of Kwenia show them flying at turbine height, placing them at high risk of being cut up by the rotating blades. Every single bird that was tagged in the Mara between 2009 and 2011, says Ogada used the flyway. Of the 14 Ruppell s vultures tagged, 50 per cent fly in the area of the proposed wind farm. High on the cliffs of Kwenia, 95km south of Nairobi, lives a colony of one of the Ruppell s vulture. Kwenia is one of the few sites in the world where the vultures breed but it is now threatened by a proposed wind farm to be constructed across a major migratory flight path for birds. PHOTO| MUNIR VIRANIIn addition, the African White-backed Vulture, also listed as critically endangered also lives in the vicinity of the proposed wind farm site.