Whether in Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda or Kenya, there are several destinations to visit or spend the Easter break. Treat yourself and see places you’ve never been to before. Here are some sites that you can easily go to, to get away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.  Murchison Falls National Park, Uganda    The park’s waterfall is a popular destination. Paara Safari Lodge and Chobe Safari Lodge are ideal places to stay when visiting the area. You can go on a game drive and see a wide range of animals , or go fishing. It is a relaxing getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life for a quiet Easter break.  Lake Victoria Serena, Uganda    The Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort and Spa is situated amid terraced rose gardens. A gently rounded bay, studded with acacia trees, the hotel’s marina is encircled by the immaculate greens of the resort’s own PGA-affiliated championship golf course. It is spanned by rustic bridges and enhanced by gentle bays where a wide array of water birds gather.  Mfangano Island Camp, Kenya     The camp is situated on Mfangano Island in Lake Victoria, and is part of the Governor’s Camps. You can enjoy birding, fishing expeditions, sundowners or simply whiling away time by the pool. For family breaks, aim for the two-bedroom cottage, and enjoy its homely cheer.  Red Rocks Cultural Centre, Rwanda    In the Northern Province, Red Rocks Cultural Centre is a unique destination located in Musanze district. The centre introduces visitors to some of Rwanda’s ancient customs and activities. There are monthly cultural talent shows that aim to raise awareness and enhance dialogue around the country’s traditions. Set among the volcanic rocks, one experiences the nature right from the red soil, to activities like farming, camping and exploring Rwandan traditional art and food.  Mt Kenya    Explore Mt Kenya with an Easter hike up the slopes. You do not have to scale the peaks, but with a good guide, the right attitude and a little practice, you will enjoy the sights and sounds of the mountain. You can combine this with a bush breakfast, horse riding on the plains, or even a visit to the Mau Mau caves.  Mikumi National Park, Tanzania    Tanzania’s fourth largest national park is situated in Morogoro region, just a few hour’s drive from Dar es Salaam city. Located between the Uluguru Mountains and the Lumango range, tourists can spot a lot of wildlife such as cheetahs, lions, elephants, buffalos and rhinos. It is ideal for a day trip, or a longer stay.  The Nile, Uganda    Located just about 80km from Kampala, Jinja has been a popular destination since the location was identified as the source of the Nile. Hotel and lodging facilities are available, and popular holiday activities here include white water rafting, bungee jumping or a relaxed ride down the river in a canoe.  Lake Magadi, Kenya    Three hours from Nairobi will get you to the scenic shores of Lake Magadi, which has large flocks of flamingoes and pelicans. You can also make it an educational break — drop by the Olorgesailie pre-historic site museum to view age-old biological and cultural displays marking the first records of human existence.  Nyungwe Forest, Rwanda    At Nyungwe Forest National Park you can go hiking in the forest, bird watching, and take a walk on the canopy. The park is located in Rusizi-Nyamasheke district in Rwanda’s Southern province, a two- hour drive from Kigali.  Saadani National Park, Tanzania    This is the only national park in Tanzania which borders the Indian Ocean. A village near the park was once a harbour town for the slave trade in East Africa. You can enjoy the wildlife as well as a beautiful view of the beach. It is just a two to three hours drive from Dar es Salaam, or you could charter a flight. There is adequate accommodation inside the park.  Akagera National Park, Rwanda    At Akagera National Park, you can enjoy nature in the trees and grasslands, and see elephant, buffalo, topi, zebra, waterbuck, roan antelope and eland. You can self-drive around the park. Guides are available to accompany you and direct you to scenic spots and areas where wildlife is most abundant.Akagera Game Lodge, located within the park, is an ideal place to stay.  Kaole Ruins, Tanzania     On the southern side of Bagamoyo lie the old ruins of Kaole. These were the buildings built and used by Arabs during their administrative era along the coast of East Africa. Among the old buildings in this area is a mosque that was built in the 13th century. It is considered to be the oldest one in Tanzania. This mosque was built by the Sultan of Kilwa.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.