Murders of high profile individuals in Uganda since November 2016 have no doubt shocked the political and security circles. But their impact, and that of other less publicised incidents, is being felt in the business community. Killers on motorbike shot dead Sheikh Major Muhammad Kiggundu and his driver, Stephen Mukasa in November last year after trailing him from his Kampala home on a Saturday morning. The killing followed at least 10 other previous murders, almost in similar fashion that mainly targeted Muslim clerics. On March 17, Andrew Felix Kaweesi, the Assistant Inspector General of Police and Police spokesperson was gunned down together with his bodyguard and driver a few metres away from his residence in Kulambiro, a Kampala suburb. READ: The killing of Uganda's police spokesman outside his home ALSO READ: Top Ugandan policeman shot dead in Kampala While the high profile killings drew attention to crime and day time murders, significant numbers of non-violent crimes have hit the business community hard, with some banks feeling the heat. Stanbic Bank Uganda, the country s largest lender with total assets worth Ush4.5 trillion ($1.2 billion) by close of December 2016, recorded 800 fraud incidents between January 2016 and January 2017. Majority of these were instigated by external parties. About 650 fraud incidents were foiled during this period, according to internal security data compiled by bank staff. Around 95 per cent of the reported fraud incidents were attributed to use of fake currency notes and three per cent were related to cases of impersonation, among others. An estimated Ush600 million ($164,347) was recovered from fraud incidents detected in the bank between January 2016 and January 2017. We have seen a rise in the number of fraud attempts initiated by some clients. We have tried to block them but more keep coming up. I recently persuaded the Uganda Bankers Association to set up an anti-cyber crime committee to guide the industry on ways to tackle this problem, said Patrick Mweheire, managing director at Stanbic Bank Uganda. The total number of cyber crime cases reported to police increased from 61 in 2014 to 137 in 2015, according to half year crime data for the first six months of 2015 published by the Uganda Police Force. There is zero tolerance for fraud in the banking industry. In case the police is involved in any fraud incidents, we have worked with the institution to investigate such matters and get to the bottom of the problem. Security in the banking industry is not negotiable and all branches are always under tight guard, observed Fabian Kasi, Centenary Bank Uganda Ltd managing director. Local entrepreneurs blame the fraud in banks on increasingly difficult economic conditions while corruption and political impunity are blamed for low business confidence in some sectors. Some customers feel commercial banks are squeezing them hard with double-digit interest rates that are reviewed at short notice, frequent foreclosures and high transaction charges. Unwillingness by banks to restructure struggling loans under a tough economic environment has made life hard for many business borrowers and this has tempted some people to hit back at the banks, said Oscar Ofumbi, who is in the transport and education sectors. We have become more alert on personal safety in many ways including how one behaves while handling financial transactions, added Mr Ofumbi. Murders of high profile individuals in Uganda since November 2016 have no doubt shocked the political and security circles. But their impact, and that of other less publicised incidents, is being felt in the business community.Killers on motorbike shot dead Sheikh Major Muhammad Kiggundu and his driver, Stephen Mukasa in November last year after trailing him from his Kampala home on a Saturday morning. The killing followed at least 10 other previous murders, almost in similar fashion that mainly targeted Muslim clerics. On March 17, Andrew Felix Kaweesi, the Assistant Inspector General of Police and Police spokesperson was gunned down together with his bodyguard and driver a few metres away from his residence in Kulambiro, a Kampala suburb.READ: The killing of Uganda's police spokesman outside his homeALSO READ: Top Ugandan policeman shot dead in KampalaWhile the high profile killings drew attention to crime and day time murders, significant numbers of non-violent crimes have hit the business community hard, with some banks feeling the heat.Stanbic Bank Uganda, the country s largest lender with total assets worth Ush4.5 trillion ($1.2 billion) by close of December 2016, recorded 800 fraud incidents between January 2016 and January 2017. Majority of these were instigated by external parties. About 650 fraud incidents were foiled during this period, according to internal security data compiled by bank staff.Around 95 per cent of the reported fraud incidents were attributed to use of fake currency notes and three per cent were related to cases of impersonation, among others. An estimated Ush600 million ($164,347) was recovered from fraud incidents detected in the bank between January 2016 and January 2017. We have seen a rise in the number of fraud attempts initiated by some clients. We have tried to block them but more keep coming up. I recently persuaded the Uganda Bankers Association to set up an anti-cyber crime committee to guide the industry on ways to tackle this problem, said Patrick Mweheire, managing director at Stanbic Bank Uganda.The total number of cyber crime cases reported to police increased from 61 in 2014 to 137 in 2015, according to half year crime data for the first six months of 2015 published by the Uganda Police Force. There is zero tolerance for fraud in the banking industry. In case the police is involved in any fraud incidents, we have worked with the institution to investigate such matters and get to the bottom of the problem. Security in the banking industry is not negotiable and all branches are always under tight guard, observed Fabian Kasi, Centenary Bank Uganda Ltd managing director.Local entrepreneurs blame the fraud in banks on increasingly difficult economic conditions while corruption and political impunity are blamed for low business confidence in some sectors. Some customers feel commercial banks are squeezing them hard with double-digit interest rates that are reviewed at short notice, frequent foreclosures and high transaction charges. Unwillingness by banks to restructure struggling loans under a tough economic environment has made life hard for many business borrowers and this has tempted some people to hit back at the banks, said Oscar Ofumbi, who is in the transport and education sectors. We have become more alert on personal safety in many ways including how one behaves while handling financial transactions, added Mr Ofumbi.