Graduates from Rwanda s Integrated Polytechnic Regional Centres (IPRCs) are in a dilemma after potential employers rejected their certificates, saying they are not recognised by the Institution of Engineers Rwanda (IER). More than 69,000 students who graduated from vocational training centres since 2015 have been affected. Graduates can only practice after they are certified by IER. Many of IPRCs graduates are not shortlisted for jobs just because they don t have a certificate of competence from the engineers association said Thadee Gasasira Gahima, the acting chairman of IPRC Kigali alumnae association, adding, IPRCs graduates are technologists and technicians but there is no professional association to cover us. Each year, over 12,000 students graduate from the more than the 180 technical and vocational education and training schools in the country. I tried working for the public service on two occasions but was told I do not qualify for the positions because I did not have IEA accreditation in addition to not having the university degree, said Straton Ufitinema, a holder of an Advanced Diploma in civil engineering and construction technology from IPRC Kigali. Jobs in public service are classified according to the required educational qualifications, professional experience, technical requirements of the job, initiative, as well as the degree of responsibility and decision making. The presidential order of August, 19, 2015, which establishes the job classification and salary index grid in the public service defines the positions that Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) graduates can apply for in the public sector. According to the engineers association, a law inducting IPRC graduates into the association is being developed. We recently proposed amendments to the IEA enlistment regulations to the Ministry of Labour to accommodate TVET graduates, said Dismas Nkubana, the IEA chairperson. According to the proposed amendments, the TVET graduates will sit an examination before being admitted to the association. Olivier Rwamukwaya, the Minister of State in Charge of Technical Vocational Education and Training said the issue is being resolved. Graduates from Rwanda s Integrated Polytechnic Regional Centres (IPRCs) are in a dilemma after potential employers rejected their certificates, saying they are not recognised by the Institution of Engineers Rwanda (IER). More than 69,000 students who graduated from vocational training centres since 2015 have been affected. Graduates can only practice after they are certified by IER. Many of IPRCs graduates are not shortlisted for jobs just because they don t have a certificate of competence from the engineers association said Thadee Gasasira Gahima, the acting chairman of IPRC Kigali alumnae association, adding, IPRCs graduates are technologists and technicians but there is no professional association to cover us. Each year, over 12,000 students graduate from the more than the 180 technical and vocational education and training schools in the country. I tried working for the public service on two occasions but was told I do not qualify for the positions because I did not have IEA accreditation in addition to not having the university degree, said Straton Ufitinema, a holder of an Advanced Diploma in civil engineering and construction technology from IPRC Kigali.Jobs in public service are classified according to the required educational qualifications, professional experience, technical requirements of the job, initiative, as well as the degree of responsibility and decision making.The presidential order of August, 19, 2015, which establishes the job classification and salary index grid in the public service defines the positions that Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) graduates can apply for in the public sector.According to the engineers association, a law inducting IPRC graduates into the association is being developed. We recently proposed amendments to the IEA enlistment regulations to the Ministry of Labour to accommodate TVET graduates, said Dismas Nkubana, the IEA chairperson.According to the proposed amendments, the TVET graduates will sit an examination before being admitted to the association.Olivier Rwamukwaya, the Minister of State in Charge of Technical Vocational Education and Training said the issue is being resolved.