Regional firms have reported a drop in their earnings, pointing to a tough environment last year as they struggled with changing government policies, foreign exchange losses, increased cost of credit and depressed consumer spending. Companies in the banking, insurance, manufacturing, energy and agricultural sectors reported a drop in their full financial year results for the past year. Leading the pack are more than 60 per cent of listed firms on the Nairobi Securities Exchange that either reported a drop in their earnings or posted losses. This was replicated to varying extents across the region as banks, manufacturing firms, energy, agricultural and commercial services firms posted a drop in their earnings. READ: Interest rate caps eat into Kenya banks profits Non-performing loans, reorganisation of business models and a drive to expand hit the banking sector, with the region largest bank by market capitalisation, Equity Bank, posting reduced earnings. The bank, which operates in Kenya Tanzania, and Rwanda, reported a 4.1 per cent net profit decline last year, weighed down by higher provisioning for bad debts. Equity Bank made a net profit of $166 million compared with $173 million in 2015. Its loan loss provisioning rose 2.7 times to $66 billion, driven by a doubling of gross non-performing loans to $187 million. Small borrowers have hit us the hardest with default on loans while the capping of interest rates prevents the lender from factoring in the default risk into their lending rates. The micro businesses defaulted highest at 9.5 per cent, said chief executive officer James Mwangi. Nine out of the 11 listed banks on the NSE posted negative earnings, with Ecobank recording the largest drop, which most of them blamed on the Banking (Amendment) Bill, 2015. Interest income Most banks depend on interest income as their biggest contributor to revenues. Data from the Central Bank of Kenya shows that the country s banks made a total of $2.79 billion in interest levied on loans and advances in 2015, almost triple the $1.05 billion seven years ago. It is expected that last year s interest income earnings for the sector will drop. The re-evaluation of the South Sudan currency also affected Stanbic, Co-operative Bank and KCB Group s overall performance. Revaluation of assets in South Sudan and non-performing loans saw our profits drop by 10 per to $44 million, from $49 million the previous year, Stanbic Bank chief executive Philip Odera said. In Tanzania, the government s directive reducing state firms wasteful spending by restricting public agencies to doing business with government, also had a knock on effect on the private sector. The directive led to a mop up of $437 million from commercial banks, which almost led to a liquidity crisis. Regional firms have reported a drop in their earnings, pointing to a tough environment last year as they struggled with changing government policies, foreign exchange losses, increased cost of credit and depressed consumer spending. Companies in the banking, insurance, manufacturing, energy and agricultural sectors reported a drop in their full financial year results for the past year.Leading the pack are more than 60 per cent of listed firms on the Nairobi Securities Exchange that either reported a drop in their earnings or posted losses. This was replicated to varying extents across the region as banks, manufacturing firms, energy, agricultural and commercial services firms posted a drop in their earnings. READ: Interest rate caps eat into Kenya banks profits Non-performing loans, reorganisation of business models and a drive to expand hit the banking sector, with the region largest bank by market capitalisation, Equity Bank, posting reduced earnings.The bank, which operates in Kenya Tanzania, and Rwanda, reported a 4.1 per cent net profit decline last year, weighed down by higher provisioning for bad debts. Equity Bank made a net profit of $166 million compared with $173 million in 2015.Its loan loss provisioning rose 2.7 times to $66 billion, driven by a doubling of gross non-performing loans to $187 million. Small borrowers have hit us the hardest with default on loans while the capping of interest rates prevents the lender from factoring in the default risk into their lending rates. The micro businesses defaulted highest at 9.5 per cent, said chief executive officer James Mwangi. Nine out of the 11 listed banks on the NSE posted negative earnings, with Ecobank recording the largest drop, which most of them blamed on the Banking (Amendment) Bill, 2015. Interest incomeMost banks depend on interest income as their biggest contributor to revenues.Data from the Central Bank of Kenya shows that the country s banks made a total of $2.79 billion in interest levied on loans and advances in 2015, almost triple the $1.05 billion seven years ago. It is expected that last year s interest income earnings for the sector will drop.The re-evaluation of the South Sudan currency also affected Stanbic, Co-operative Bank and KCB Group s overall performance. Revaluation of assets in South Sudan and non-performing loans saw our profits drop by 10 per to $44 million, from $49 million the previous year, Stanbic Bank chief executive Philip Odera said.In Tanzania, the government s directive reducing state firms wasteful spending by restricting public agencies to doing business with government, also had a knock on effect on the private sector. The directive led to a mop up of $437 million from commercial banks, which almost led to a liquidity crisis.