A day after Kenya s President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a public information portal, showcasing his administration s development achievements over the past four years, the opposition has dismissed it calling it a portal of lies. The exchange has taken political temperatures a notch higher in the country which goes to the polls on August 8, 2017. While launching the Jubilee portal at Nairobi's Kenyatta International Convention Centre on Monday, President Kenyatta said it would help Kenyans discern the truth from propaganda peddled by the opposition over government's achievements. My vision is to have an all-inclusive and stable Kenya where every Kenyan feels they have a government that inspires hope and not negative ethnicity, he said. The portal has detailed information on the projects the government has undertaken and their status since assuming office on April 9, 2013. They include infrastructure projects such as roads and railway, electricity and tertiary institutions. For the first, we have decided to use technology to showcase the achievement we have made over the past four years," the president said. He dismissed claims that the Eurobond funds were stolen saying: This portal will help prove how the Ksh200 billion ($ 2 million) Eurobond money was used in projects across the country. For example the President said that the portal will show the road from Voi to Taveta that has been tarmacked as well as the bridge from Mbita to Rusinga that has been constructed among other projects that are transforming the lives of Kenyans. READ:Instead of erecting a wall of evidence on Eurobond, Treasury put out spreadsheets ALSO READ:Mystified by Eurobond figures? Actually, our problems go much deeper than that But the opposition, Orange Democratic Party (ODM) replied within 24 hours saying that Kenyans have be numbed by the dizzying figures of stolen money in the name of grand projects. This information portal should have had two things: The list of those who have stolen our money to the tune of about $2.8 billion in four years and the action taken against these people. What became of the people he named in 2015 List of shame? Who among them is in jail? How much has his government recovered and what have the proceeds been used on?, ODM said in a statement. On Tuesday, ODM leader, Raila Odinga speaking at his party headquarters in Nairobi issued a statement in which he countered claims government made about various sectors saying that Jubilee s tale in this critical areas has never ever added up. In his 2016 State of the Nation address, the President said that Jubilee had built 3,000 Km of road. In this year s address, the number came down to 1,950 km," said Mr Odinga. "In the Budget Speech read on March 30, the roads done came down again to 1,500 km. During the State of the Nation address, the President claimed there was 7,000 km of road under construction, said Mr Odinga. A day after Kenya s President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a public information portal, showcasing his administration s development achievements over the past four years, the opposition has dismissed it calling it a portal of lies. The exchange has taken political temperatures a notch higher in the country which goes to the polls on August 8, 2017.While launching the Jubilee portal at Nairobi's Kenyatta International Convention Centre on Monday, President Kenyatta said it would help Kenyans discern the truth from propaganda peddled by the opposition over government's achievements. My vision is to have an all-inclusive and stable Kenya where every Kenyan feels they have a government that inspires hope and not negative ethnicity, he said.The portal has detailed information on the projects the government has undertaken and their status since assuming office on April 9, 2013. They include infrastructure projects such as roads and railway, electricity and tertiary institutions. For the first, we have decided to use technology to showcase the achievement we have made over the past four years," the president said.He dismissed claims that the Eurobond funds were stolen saying: This portal will help prove how the Ksh200 billion ($ 2 million) Eurobond money was used in projects across the country. For example the President said that the portal will show the road from Voi to Taveta that has been tarmacked as well as the bridge from Mbita to Rusinga that has been constructed among other projects that are transforming the lives of Kenyans.READ:Instead of erecting a wall of evidence on Eurobond, Treasury put out spreadsheets ALSO READ:Mystified by Eurobond figures? Actually, our problems go much deeper than that But the opposition, Orange Democratic Party (ODM) replied within 24 hours saying that Kenyans have be numbed by the dizzying figures of stolen money in the name of grand projects. This information portal should have had two things: The list of those who have stolen our money to the tune of about $2.8 billion in four years and the action taken against these people. What became of the people he named in 2015 List of shame? Who among them is in jail? How much has his government recovered and what have the proceeds been used on?, ODM said in a statement.On Tuesday, ODM leader, Raila Odinga speaking at his party headquarters in Nairobi issued a statement in which he countered claims government made about various sectors saying that Jubilee s tale in this critical areas has never ever added up. In his 2016 State of the Nation address, the President said that Jubilee had built 3,000 Km of road. In this year s address, the number came down to 1,950 km," said Mr Odinga. "In the Budget Speech read on March 30, the roads done came down again to 1,500 km. During the State of the Nation address, the President claimed there was 7,000 km of road under construction, said Mr Odinga.