While South Africa s President Jacob Zuma celebrates his birthday in Soweto Johannesburg thousands of protesters descend on Pretoria demanding he step down. The troubled South African leader turns 75 today, and his party, the African National Congress (ANC) has organised a celebratory rally to be held at the Walter Sisulu Square in Kliptown. But in the capital, Pretoria, organisers say at least 10,000 people are expected to join the second anti-Zuma march this time organised by seven opposition parties. The first march, organised by Save South Africa, was held countrywide last Friday. READ: Anti-Zuma marches gather momentum in SA This time, opposition parties - the Democratic Alliance (DA), Congress of the People (COPE), Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP), African People s Convention (APC) and United Democratic Movement (UDM) have united to put pressure on the beleaguered leader. Ironically, President Zuma s foe, Pravin Gordhan, the former Finance Minister fired a fortnight ago, shares a birthday with the president. Mr Gordhan whose axing angered South Africans is celebrating his 58th birthday. READ: Now three axed SA ministers resign as members of parliament Opposition parties have dubbed Wednesday s march "a national day of action." Early Wednesday morning marchers started gathering at Church Square and are scheduled to march to the Union Building, which houses President Zuma s office at lunch time. During a joint briefing in Pretoria on Monday, the parties said the mass action to the Union Buildings marks the beginning of a consciousness movement aimed at educating ordinary South Africans about the consequences of being downgraded to junk status by rating agencies." READ: Backlash after Zuma sacks Finance minister EFF leader, Julius Malema said that they salute South Africa for being courageous after successful marches. Fear is not the answer. We remain united against kleptocracy despite our political differences. We love South Africa, Mr Malema said. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said the march was not a numbers game but was intended to deliver a message. While South Africa s President Jacob Zuma celebrates his birthday in Soweto Johannesburg thousands of protesters descend on Pretoria demanding he step down.The troubled South African leader turns 75 today, and his party, the African National Congress (ANC) has organised a celebratory rally to be held at the Walter Sisulu Square in Kliptown.But in the capital, Pretoria, organisers say at least 10,000 people are expected to join the second anti-Zuma march this time organised by seven opposition parties. The first march, organised by Save South Africa, was held countrywide last Friday.READ: Anti-Zuma marches gather momentum in SAThis time, opposition parties - the Democratic Alliance (DA), Congress of the People (COPE), Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP), African People s Convention (APC) and United Democratic Movement (UDM) have united to put pressure on the beleaguered leader.Ironically, President Zuma s foe, Pravin Gordhan, the former Finance Minister fired a fortnight ago, shares a birthday with the president.Mr Gordhan whose axing angered South Africans is celebrating his 58th birthday.READ: Now three axed SA ministers resign as members of parliament Opposition parties have dubbed Wednesday s march "a national day of action."Early Wednesday morning marchers started gathering at Church Square and are scheduled to march to the Union Building, which houses President Zuma s office at lunch time.During a joint briefing in Pretoria on Monday, the parties said the mass action to the Union Buildings marks the beginning of a consciousness movement aimed at educating ordinary South Africans about the consequences of being downgraded to junk status by rating agencies."READ: Backlash after Zuma sacks Finance minister EFF leader, Julius Malema said that they salute South Africa for being courageous after successful marches. Fear is not the answer. We remain united against kleptocracy despite our political differences. We love South Africa, Mr Malema said.UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said the march was not a numbers game but was intended to deliver a message.