Uncertainty surrounding the future of the Kenya-Uganda Railway concession has claimed its first casualty, with a private equity firm pulling out of a deal to acquire the operator Rift Valley Railways from Qalaa Holdings of Egypt. The decision by Emerging Capital Partners to disown talks that had been confirmed as ongoing by, among others, the Kenyan regulator of the line got a quick response from RVR, which said it would seek answers from its shareholders (Qalaa) on what was going on. ECP is not currently in discussions with Rift Valley Railways or its principal stakeholders about an investment in RVR, said the firm in a statement. The ECP statement came almost a fortnight after it was reported to have commissioned an audit firm to carry out due diligence on RVR s financial position. It also came a week after it emerged that Kenya had terminated the RVR contract over non-payment of fees. ALSO READ:25-year Kenya-Uganda railway deal terminated Due diligence, the perusing of books to confirm accuracy with third party records like asset registries and bank accounts, usually follows an agreement in principle of interest in acquiring a company. It is done on a strictly confidential basis. When contacted by The East-African, RVR chief executive officer Isaiah Okoth said he was awaiting communication from Qalaa Holdings on the new developments. ECP has been negotiating with shareholders and I am waiting for official communication to know the status of the negotiations, Mr Okoth said. Later, RVR issued a statement signed by Mr Okoth which just fell short of questioning ECP s integrity. RVR has been in discussion with several potential investors, including ECP, through its shareholders. As far as RVR is concerned ECP has been involved in due diligence of RVR business, reads the statement signed by Mr Okoth. READ: RVR wooing investors in hunt for cash Barely a week after Kenya Railways Corporation terminated the Rift Valley Railway concession, ECP has walked out on plans to acquire the majority shareholding in RVR. ECP, which had reached an agreement with Cairo-based Qalaa Holdings to acquire its 73.76 per cent stake in RVR, has opted out of the deal following the termination of the 25-year concession. READ: Troubled RVR still attractive to investors, gets new shareholder It added that it will continue to explore opportunities to invest capital to support the growth of East Africa s infrastructure sector. RVR also said it was pursuing other options in consultation with the Kenyan and Ugandan regulators with a view to achieving the best possible outcome for all stakeholders in this regard. Uncertainty surrounding the future of the Kenya-Uganda Railway concession has claimed its first casualty, with a private equity firm pulling out of a deal to acquire the operator Rift Valley Railways from Qalaa Holdings of Egypt.The decision by Emerging Capital Partners to disown talks that had been confirmed as ongoing by, among others, the Kenyan regulator of the line got a quick response from RVR, which said it would seek answers from its shareholders (Qalaa) on what was going on. ECP is not currently in discussions with Rift Valley Railways or its principal stakeholders about an investment in RVR, said the firm in a statement. The ECP statement came almost a fortnight after it was reported to have commissioned an audit firm to carry out due diligence on RVR s financial position. It also came a week after it emerged that Kenya had terminated the RVR contract over non-payment of fees.Due diligence, the perusing of books to confirm accuracy with third party records like asset registries and bank accounts, usually follows an agreement in principle of interest in acquiring a company. It is done on a strictly confidential basis.When contacted by The East-African, RVR chief executive officer Isaiah Okoth said he was awaiting communication from Qalaa Holdings on the new developments. ECP has been negotiating with shareholders and I am waiting for official communication to know the status of the negotiations, Mr Okoth said. Later, RVR issued a statement signed by Mr Okoth which just fell short of questioning ECP s integrity. RVR has been in discussion with several potential investors, including ECP, through its shareholders. As far as RVR is concerned ECP has been involved in due diligence of RVR business, reads the statement signed by Mr Okoth.Barely a week after Kenya Railways Corporation terminated the Rift Valley Railway concession, ECP has walked out on plans to acquire the majority shareholding in RVR.ECP, which had reached an agreement with Cairo-based Qalaa Holdings to acquire its 73.76 per cent stake in RVR, has opted out of the deal following the termination of the 25-year concession.It added that it will continue to explore opportunities to invest capital to support the growth of East Africa s infrastructure sector.RVR also said it was pursuing other options in consultation with the Kenyan and Ugandan regulators with a view to achieving the best possible outcome for all stakeholders in this regard. 