China and India have emerged as the main buyers of the Turkana crude oil that Kenya plans to export under a test programme beginning June, contrary to an earlier announcement that buyers had been found in Europe. Petroleum Principal Secretary Andrew Kamau said the first sea tankers will dock at the Mombasa port in June to pick up the consignment transported from northern Kenya by road and stored at the Mariakani refinery tanks. British oil explorer Tullow, the developer of the Turkana oilfields, has already pumped out and stored 60,000 barrels of crude in Lokichar in readiness for transportation to Mombasa. Mr Kamau who had in February said a deal had been struck with European refiners to buy the Kenyan oil Tuesday made an about-turn and said no such agreement had been reached. Shipment logistics About Europe, let s just leave it until people have confirmed they will pick it up, he said, adding that the buyers will incur the cost of shipment logistics. Crude exports are set to open a new line of trade between Kenya and the two Asian powerhouses, which are the biggest suppliers of goods to Nairobi. China s expected intake of Kenyan crude adds to the list of extractives the Asian economic giant gets from the East African nation. So far the list includes titanium which is used as an alloy to produce jet engines. Official data shows that Beijing s titanium imports from Kenya stood at $5.2 million (Sh5.3 billion) in the first 10 months of last year, accounting for over 80 per cent of the total imports from Nairobi. The top seller India, which boasts a number of refineries, had until last year been the top seller of petroleum to Kenya. It was, however, overtaken by the United Arab Emirates (UAE), which is currently the biggest supplier of oil to Kenya. Kenya s crude oil is classified as light and sweet, meaning it has less sulphur (below 0.5 per cent) an impurity that has to be removed before crude is refined into petroleum. This type of oil is known to fetch higher prices in the global market because dealers find it easier to refine and it produces high-value products petrol and diesel. It is, however, waxy and sticky, making it necessary to heat it during transportation. Early production China and India have emerged as the main buyers of the Turkana crude oil that Kenya plans to export under a test programme beginning June, contrary to an earlier announcement that buyers had been found in Europe.Petroleum Principal Secretary Andrew Kamau said the first sea tankers will dock at the Mombasa port in June to pick up the consignment transported from northern Kenya by road and stored at the Mariakani refinery tanks.British oil explorer Tullow, the developer of the Turkana oilfields, has already pumped out and stored 60,000 barrels of crude in Lokichar in readiness for transportation to Mombasa.Mr Kamau who had in February said a deal had been struck with European refiners to buy the Kenyan oil Tuesday made an about-turn and said no such agreement had been reached.Shipment logistics About Europe, let s just leave it until people have confirmed they will pick it up, he said, adding that the buyers will incur the cost of shipment logistics.Crude exports are set to open a new line of trade between Kenya and the two Asian powerhouses, which are the biggest suppliers of goods to Nairobi.China s expected intake of Kenyan crude adds to the list of extractives the Asian economic giant gets from the East African nation. So far the list includes titanium which is used as an alloy to produce jet engines.Official data shows that Beijing s titanium imports from Kenya stood at $5.2 million (Sh5.3 billion) in the first 10 months of last year, accounting for over 80 per cent of the total imports from Nairobi.The top sellerIndia, which boasts a number of refineries, had until last year been the top seller of petroleum to Kenya.It was, however, overtaken by the United Arab Emirates (UAE), which is currently the biggest supplier of oil to Kenya.Kenya s crude oil is classified as light and sweet, meaning it has less sulphur (below 0.5 per cent) an impurity that has to be removed before crude is refined into petroleum.This type of oil is known to fetch higher prices in the global market because dealers find it easier to refine and it produces high-value products petrol and diesel. It is, however, waxy and sticky, making it necessary to heat it during transportation.Early production