Piracy off the Horn of Africa was once estimated by the World Bank to cost global trade billions of dollars, and to harm the fragile economies of countries in the region. These disastrous financial costs, at a time of a painful global downturn, came alongside pain and suffering for those taken hostage, some of whom died due to desperate living conditions and lack of medical treatment. Now, in the past few weeks, Somali piracy is back in the headlines. Since early March, there have been numerous successful attacks, including on April 1, when the cargo ship Al Kaushar was boarded. Eleven Indian nationals were captured. Despite the region s harrowing history, the five-year let-up in serious attacks has led to a collective forgetting about the dangers of Somali piracy. Hard-won lessons about veering too close to the Somali coastline and having visible security seem to have been thrown overboard in favour of time and cost savings. Navy patrols, one of the main reasons for the lull in attacks, have decreased. Four things that need to be done immediately, if we are to avoid a rerun of the early part of this decade when attacks on ships numbered in their hundreds, dozens of hostages were held in appalling conditions, and billions of dollars were wiped off global trade. First, it is imperative that the international community remains vigilant and commercial shipping follows the advice of navies and the International Maritime Organisation when planning safe passage through the sea corridors off Somalia. Intelligence on risk, criminal gangs, the disposition of pirate boats, and recent pirate activity should be gathered, reviewed and swiftly transmitted. Second, we should acknowledge that the promise of pirate riches is enough to bait the hook for impoverished and jobless youth. A survey of 66 imprisoned pirates by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime UNODC and Oceans Beyond Piracy) found poverty was one of the main reasons for their criminal activity. Advocacy about the dangers of life on the high seas, and the creation of sustainable livelihoods on land are essential. Piracy s relationship with illegal fishing, which depletes Somalia s resources, also needs to be fully examined, and if necessary, mitigated. Third, the pursuit of fair criminal justice systems so pirates can be prosecuted, and if found guilty, jailed in safe and secure prisons back in Somalia. So far, 1,300 young Somali men have been held on suspicion of piracy and processed through the courts of 21 states. Fourth, Somali maritime law enforcement agencies need to be fully supported with resources and equipment, so they can extend their reach beyond the Somali coast. Many of these subjects will be discussed at a conference on Somalia in London on May 11, which should build momentum for future action. For the sake of the people of Somalia, the international community needs to remain vigilant and to help where needed. This is no time to be caught all at sea. Yury Fedotov is the executive director at the UN Office on Drugs and Crime Piracy off the Horn of Africa was once estimated by the World Bank to cost global trade billions of dollars, and to harm the fragile economies of countries in the region.These disastrous financial costs, at a time of a painful global downturn, came alongside pain and suffering for those taken hostage, some of whom died due to desperate living conditions and lack of medical treatment.Now, in the past few weeks, Somali piracy is back in the headlines.Since early March, there have been numerous successful attacks, including on April 1, when the cargo ship Al Kaushar was boarded. Eleven Indian nationals were captured.Despite the region s harrowing history, the five-year let-up in serious attacks has led to a collective forgetting about the dangers of Somali piracy. Hard-won lessons about veering too close to the Somali coastline and having visible security seem to have been thrown overboard in favour of time and cost savings. Navy patrols, one of the main reasons for the lull in attacks, have decreased. Four things that need to be done immediately, if we are to avoid a rerun of the early part of this decade when attacks on ships numbered in their hundreds, dozens of hostages were held in appalling conditions, and billions of dollars were wiped off global trade. First, it is imperative that the international community remains vigilant and commercial shipping follows the advice of navies and the International Maritime Organisation when planning safe passage through the sea corridors off Somalia. Intelligence on risk, criminal gangs, the disposition of pirate boats, and recent pirate activity should be gathered, reviewed and swiftly transmitted.Second, we should acknowledge that the promise of pirate riches is enough to bait the hook for impoverished and jobless youth. A survey of 66 imprisoned pirates by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime UNODC and Oceans Beyond Piracy) found poverty was one of the main reasons for their criminal activity.Advocacy about the dangers of life on the high seas, and the creation of sustainable livelihoods on land are essential. Piracy s relationship with illegal fishing, which depletes Somalia s resources, also needs to be fully examined, and if necessary, mitigated. Third, the pursuit of fair criminal justice systems so pirates can be prosecuted, and if found guilty, jailed in safe and secure prisons back in Somalia. So far, 1,300 young Somali men have been held on suspicion of piracy and processed through the courts of 21 states. Fourth, Somali maritime law enforcement agencies need to be fully supported with resources and equipment, so they can extend their reach beyond the Somali coast. Many of these subjects will be discussed at a conference on Somalia in London on May 11, which should build momentum for future action. For the sake of the people of Somalia, the international community needs to remain vigilant and to help where needed. This is no time to be caught all at sea. Yury Fedotov is the executive director at the UN Office on Drugs and Crime