Kenya is doing something that the rest of East Africa, and indeed Africa, should keep a close eye on. It is getting rid of its hated 32 year-old 8-4-4 system, which was blamed for fuelling rote learning and killing student s imagination, and replacing it with something far more flexible. Under the 8-4-4 system, you had eight years of primary school, then four in secondary school, and four in university (for most subjects). At each stage you had to pass a cumbersome exam, and if you failed your life could be over. The new curriculum is dubbed 2.6.3.3.3, but the breakdowns are not what are interesting. Remember that the main driver of education change in Africa has been politics, so for the past 50 years or so the clamour has been to decolonise education. The argument here has been that for Africans to take on the world confidently, they need to remove the distortions introduced in knowledge by the wazungu. This can be as basic as rewriting textbooks to remove references to Lake Victoria, and go back to the old name of Lake Nalubaale (for Ugandans, at least). The second part of it has been to introduce more practical subjects. Thus, instead of teaching students about Eskimos in Greenland, teach them woodwork and carpentry. The Kenya reform is unusual in that it doesn t stake a claim to being some grand political and social engineering project, or know all the practical skills students will need. It turns it into an individual pursuit for nurturing every learners potential, and equipping them with 21st century skills . The changes aim to give students time to play and have fun, and not drive themselves insane cramming for tests. There is a lot of room for students to choose what they want to study, and they will be assessed based on their competencies (ability to apply knowledge and skills in performing various tasks). These assessments will be done continuously over the time of a student s stay at school, not one big drop-dead examination day. In secondary school, they will have community service projects, and there are all sorts of tricks have been built in to get parents more involved. These reforms have opened debate on what an education is, and what should be considered in assessments. While Kenya has taken off in a more enlightened direction than others with its reforms, it is still shy. First, the five-day-continous study week should end. Children need a mid-week day when they can sleep in late. Then, the notion of what constitutes community service and skills needs to change. In the countryside, children who help look after the family s cows, certainly know more about cattle than their urban counterparts who see them only in photographs. Kenya is doing something that the rest of East Africa, and indeed Africa, should keep a close eye on.It is getting rid of its hated 32 year-old 8-4-4 system, which was blamed for fuelling rote learning and killing student s imagination, and replacing it with something far more flexible.Under the 8-4-4 system, you had eight years of primary school, then four in secondary school, and four in university (for most subjects). At each stage you had to pass a cumbersome exam, and if you failed your life could be over.The new curriculum is dubbed 2.6.3.3.3, but the breakdowns are not what are interesting. Remember that the main driver of education change in Africa has been politics, so for the past 50 years or so the clamour has been to decolonise education. The argument here has been that for Africans to take on the world confidently, they need to remove the distortions introduced in knowledge by the wazungu. This can be as basic as rewriting textbooks to remove references to Lake Victoria, and go back to the old name of Lake Nalubaale (for Ugandans, at least).The second part of it has been to introduce more practical subjects. Thus, instead of teaching students about Eskimos in Greenland, teach them woodwork and carpentry.The Kenya reform is unusual in that it doesn t stake a claim to being some grand political and social engineering project, or know all the practical skills students will need. It turns it into an individual pursuit for nurturing every learners potential, and equipping them with 21st century skills . The changes aim to give students time to play and have fun, and not drive themselves insane cramming for tests.There is a lot of room for students to choose what they want to study, and they will be assessed based on their competencies (ability to apply knowledge and skills in performing various tasks). These assessments will be done continuously over the time of a student s stay at school, not one big drop-dead examination day.In secondary school, they will have community service projects, and there are all sorts of tricks have been built in to get parents more involved.These reforms have opened debate on what an education is, and what should be considered in assessments.While Kenya has taken off in a more enlightened direction than others with its reforms, it is still shy.First, the five-day-continous study week should end. Children need a mid-week day when they can sleep in late.Then, the notion of what constitutes community service and skills needs to change. In the countryside, children who help look after the family s cows, certainly know more about cattle than their urban counterparts who see them only in photographs.