The murder of Tristan Voorspuy of Sosian Ranch in Kenya s Laikipia County on March 6, 2017 has inflamed old tensions and brought to the surface the dirty little secrets Kenya refuses to deal with. Laikipia is a deadly amalgam: It melds together Kenya s corrupt politics; long-standing Maasai grievances and perennial ranchers denial of colonial era wrongs. Because Laikipia is a crowded and unequal place, this combustible mix won t stay stable forever. It is a situation daily compounded by poor policies; rancher disdain for local politics and opportunistic politicians hoping to muscle in on the riches of the county. For Laikipia, geography is destiny. So is history. The county is small: At 2.4 million acres, it is Kenya s 15th largest county and 26th poorest. Ecologically, it lies athwart the wet, volcanic soils of Meru, Nyeri and Nyandarua to the east and south supporting small-holder agriculture and the semi-arid and more friable soils of Samburu, Isiolo and Baringo, areas of wildlife and pastoralism. Land ownership is deeply unequal, which plays a role in the county s conflicts. Fewer than 50 individuals own 45 per cent of Laikipia s total land, principally as wildlife ranchers. They run thriving high-end tourism businesses, enterprises that have justly earned the county and Kenya international renown. In 2014, the New York Times named Laikipia one of six top tourist destinations in Africa. Visitors run to 90,000 a year and generate annual gross revenues of over Ksh1.5 billion ($15.5 million). Visitor numbers had been expected to grow at 14 per cent per year from 2014 but the recent troubles mean that these numbers will fall, at least in the shortrun. Geography The varied geography shapes not only economic activity but also conflict. There are conflicts between ranchers and smallholder farmers who perennially fume about their crops being trampled under by wildlife. There are also more deadly conflicts, between ranchers and pastoralists, especially the Samburu herders. In county politics, the ranchers have no natural allies. They blame the farmers for blocking the animals migratory corridors and so inviting the trampling. Their beef with the pastoralists is more complex and is embedded in historical controversies and sharp differences in conservation philosophy. The official explanation for the festering troubles is that severe drought has driven herders to invade private wildlife ranches and conservancies. That, though, is a lazy and dangerously na ve view. The murder of Tristan Voorspuy of Sosian Ranch in Kenya s Laikipia County on March 6, 2017 has inflamed old tensions and brought to the surface the dirty little secrets Kenya refuses to deal with. Laikipia is a deadly amalgam: It melds together Kenya s corrupt politics; long-standing Maasai grievances and perennial ranchers denial of colonial era wrongs. Because Laikipia is a crowded and unequal place, this combustible mix won t stay stable forever. It is a situation daily compounded by poor policies; rancher disdain for local politics and opportunistic politicians hoping to muscle in on the riches of the county.For Laikipia, geography is destiny. So is history. The county is small: At 2.4 million acres, it is Kenya s 15th largest county and 26th poorest. Ecologically, it lies athwart the wet, volcanic soils of Meru, Nyeri and Nyandarua to the east and south supporting small-holder agriculture and the semi-arid and more friable soils of Samburu, Isiolo and Baringo, areas of wildlife and pastoralism. Land ownership is deeply unequal, which plays a role in the county s conflicts. Fewer than 50 individuals own 45 per cent of Laikipia s total land, principally as wildlife ranchers. They run thriving high-end tourism businesses, enterprises that have justly earned the county and Kenya international renown. In 2014, the New York Times named Laikipia one of six top tourist destinations in Africa. Visitors run to 90,000 a year and generate annual gross revenues of over Ksh1.5 billion ($15.5 million). Visitor numbers had been expected to grow at 14 per cent per year from 2014 but the recent troubles mean that these numbers will fall, at least in the shortrun.GeographyThe varied geography shapes not only economic activity but also conflict. There are conflicts between ranchers and smallholder farmers who perennially fume about their crops being trampled under by wildlife.There are also more deadly conflicts, between ranchers and pastoralists, especially the Samburu herders. In county politics, the ranchers have no natural allies.They blame the farmers for blocking the animals migratory corridors and so inviting the trampling. Their beef with the pastoralists is more complex and is embedded in historical controversies and sharp differences in conservation philosophy.The official explanation for the festering troubles is that severe drought has driven herders to invade private wildlife ranches and conservancies. That, though, is a lazy and dangerously na ve view.