As Rwandans and their friends across the globe come together to commemorate the 23rd Anniversary of the Rwanda genocide this year, I would like to make it clear that the tragic events that transpired in Rwanda in April 1994 constituted a Genocide Against the Tutsi. Unfortunately, the United Nations has persistently continued to refer to the above as Genocide in Rwanda which does not make any sense in the context of the International Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 9, 1948 and came into force on January 12, 1951. Article II of this convention defines genocide as acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group. Further to this, I want to refer to the Judicial Notice taken by the Appeals Chamber of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) on June 16, 2016. Section 3 states, Between April 6, 1994 and July, 1994 there was genocide in Rwanda against the Tutsi ethnic group. That is a court ruling at the appeals level given by the UN Court, which was instituted by the United Nations General Assembly through its 1994 Resolution number 955. The effect of the judicial notice was to put to rest in a judicially binding force any contention on whether there was Genocide in Rwanda, who were the victims and who were the perpetrators. Any political decision prior and to the contrary was effectively vacated by this judicial decision and any decision to the contrary will be effectively illegal and null and void. Therefore, UN organs are duty bound to respect the decision of UN Court and not import politics into the interpretation and phraseology that goes contrary to this important judicial notice. In fact, that would be contempt of court. To illustrate the relevance of the above important UN decision, let me give you a glimpse of what transpired in Rwanda in 1994. The build up to the genocide started by the entrenching of divisions and hatred by the colonial administration, all of which was embraced and perpetuated by successive post-Independence regimes, culminating in the 1994 Genocide Against the Tutsi. From April 7, 1994, the regime in power through its administrative and security organs as well as organised militia groups then known as Interahamwe descended on the Tutsi population and slaughtered them using traditional and non-traditional tools and weapons. It is estimated that 10,000 people were killed every single day and by the end of 100 days, one million people had been exterminated. In the process of committing the genocide, the killers did not spare any person who opposed the genocide ideology whether by condemning it or by simply refusing to participate in the actual killings or even by shielding the Tutsis who were hunted down. Prior to the Genocide in 1994, the United Nations Security Council In October 1993, by its resolution 872 (1993), established the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (Unamir) and dispatched hundreds of soldiers to oversee the peace process. During Unamir s operations in Rwanda, Force Commander Gen. Romeo Dallaire (a Canadian) found out that a genocide was building up and decided to raise the alarm by sending several cables to the UN headquarters and other key capitals alerting world leaders that genocide against the Tutsi population was in the making, but his appeals landed on deaf ears until over a million people had perished. What is most disturbing is that at the peak of these brutal killings Unamir soldiers were withdrawn, leaving the victims at the mercy of their predators. When the Rwanda Patriotic Army under the command of our current President Paul Kagame realised that the whole world had decided to abandon Rwandans at a very critical moment, it decided to fight to stop the genocide and rescue the victims. As Rwandans and their friends across the globe come together to commemorate the 23rd Anniversary of the Rwanda genocide this year, I would like to make it clear that the tragic events that transpired in Rwanda in April 1994 constituted a Genocide Against the Tutsi.Unfortunately, the United Nations has persistently continued to refer to the above as Genocide in Rwanda which does not make any sense in the context of the International Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 9, 1948 and came into force on January 12, 1951. Article II of this convention defines genocide as acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group. Further to this, I want to refer to the Judicial Notice taken by the Appeals Chamber of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) on June 16, 2016. Section 3 states, Between April 6, 1994 and July, 1994 there was genocide in Rwanda against the Tutsi ethnic group. That is a court ruling at the appeals level given by the UN Court, which was instituted by the United Nations General Assembly through its 1994 Resolution number 955.The effect of the judicial notice was to put to rest in a judicially binding force any contention on whether there was Genocide in Rwanda, who were the victims and who were the perpetrators. Any political decision prior and to the contrary was effectively vacated by this judicial decision and any decision to the contrary will be effectively illegal and null and void. Therefore, UN organs are duty bound to respect the decision of UN Court and not import politics into the interpretation and phraseology that goes contrary to this important judicial notice. In fact, that would be contempt of court.To illustrate the relevance of the above important UN decision, let me give you a glimpse of what transpired in Rwanda in 1994. The build up to the genocide started by the entrenching of divisions and hatred by the colonial administration, all of which was embraced and perpetuated by successive post-Independence regimes, culminating in the 1994 Genocide Against the Tutsi.From April 7, 1994, the regime in power through its administrative and security organs as well as organised militia groups then known as Interahamwe descended on the Tutsi population and slaughtered them using traditional and non-traditional tools and weapons. It is estimated that 10,000 people were killed every single day and by the end of 100 days, one million people had been exterminated. In the process of committing the genocide, the killers did not spare any person who opposed the genocide ideology whether by condemning it or by simply refusing to participate in the actual killings or even by shielding the Tutsis who were hunted down. Prior to the Genocide in 1994, the United Nations Security Council In October 1993, by its resolution 872 (1993), established the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (Unamir) and dispatched hundreds of soldiers to oversee the peace process. During Unamir s operations in Rwanda, Force Commander Gen. Romeo Dallaire (a Canadian) found out that a genocide was building up and decided to raise the alarm by sending several cables to the UN headquarters and other key capitals alerting world leaders that genocide against the Tutsi population was in the making, but his appeals landed on deaf ears until over a million people had perished. What is most disturbing is that at the peak of these brutal killings Unamir soldiers were withdrawn, leaving the victims at the mercy of their predators. When the Rwanda Patriotic Army under the command of our current President Paul Kagame realised that the whole world had decided to abandon Rwandans at a very critical moment, it decided to fight to stop the genocide and rescue the victims.