The last private conversation between President Yoweri Museveni and Kizza Besigye, a telephone call in 1999, was terse and inconclusive. Besigye was awaiting his release from the Army where he was a colonel, but relations between the two men had already frayed. President Museveni wanted to know his former close ally and personal doctor s future plans. Besigye said he was retiring to private business and farming. When the call ended President Museveni was convinced he had not been told the full story, aides he spoke to later said. He was right. Less than two years later, in 2001, the two men faced off in an election that, to this day, remains memorable for the violence and malpractices that came to define it. After three more disputed elections featuring the two men, the contest between President Museveni and Dr Besigye has come to define the political contest in Uganda. The latest attempt to broker dialogue between the two men, therefore, carries hope, not just for rapprochement between the two principals, but perhaps a wider realignment of the political culture in Uganda. Senior government officials led by spokesman Ofwono Opondo have publicly denied the existence of any planned talks. Mostly, it is because they have been kept out of the loop. 'Talks about the talks' Uganda s ambassador to the United Nations, Adonia Ayebare, has done a lot of the shuttle diplomacy between the two principals, sources say, while the Women s Situation Room, a civil society initiative to reduce electoral violence, has been involved, as has the Swedish government. For several months now, technical teams in the opposition Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) and the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM) have been quietly exchanging memoranda to work out details, in what a source calls talks about the talks . Tentative agreement has been reached on the broad outlines of the dialogue, according to sources familiar with the process, including agreeing to a neutral venue and a mediator, Sweden s state secretary for foreign affairs, Annika S der. President Museveni s family lived in Sweden for many years while in exile and that made the Swedes an easy choice, on top of their relatively neutral foreign policy stance in the region. Agreement has also been reached, in principle, on the main agenda items. The FDC side is keen to have an audit of the 2016 election, which Besigye claims he won. Official results gave Museveni the win with 60.75 per cent, Besigye 35.37 per cent with former Prime Minister Amama Mbabazi with 1.43 per cent. The NRM side wants an agenda item on "law and order" as it seeks to end the defiance campaign that Besigye and a section of the FDC party has been pursuing since the election, and which is often characterised by street clashes between the police and protestors. Despite the progress, suspicions remain high on both sides. History is partly to blame. Former Prime Minister Amama Mbabazi. PHOTO | FILE A few months after the 2011 general elections President Museveni convened a meeting at State House in Entebbe. Mr Mbabazi, then still NRM secretary general was in attendance, as was his deputy, Dorothy Hyuha, First Lady Janet Museveni and generals Salim Saleh, Aronda Nyakairima (chief of defence forces) and Kale Kayihura (Inspector General of police). The last private conversation between President Yoweri Museveni and Kizza Besigye, a telephone call in 1999, was terse and inconclusive. Besigye was awaiting his release from the Army where he was a colonel, but relations between the two men had already frayed. President Museveni wanted to know his former close ally and personal doctor s future plans. Besigye said he was retiring to private business and farming. When the call ended President Museveni was convinced he had not been told the full story, aides he spoke to later said. He was right. Less than two years later, in 2001, the two men faced off in an election that, to this day, remains memorable for the violence and malpractices that came to define it. After three more disputed elections featuring the two men, the contest between President Museveni and Dr Besigye has come to define the political contest in Uganda. The latest attempt to broker dialogue between the two men, therefore, carries hope, not just for rapprochement between the two principals, but perhaps a wider realignment of the political culture in Uganda. Senior government officials led by spokesman Ofwono Opondo have publicly denied the existence of any planned talks. Mostly, it is because they have been kept out of the loop. 'Talks about the talks'Uganda s ambassador to the United Nations, Adonia Ayebare, has done a lot of the shuttle diplomacy between the two principals, sources say, while the Women s Situation Room, a civil society initiative to reduce electoral violence, has been involved, as has the Swedish government. For several months now, technical teams in the opposition Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) and the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM) have been quietly exchanging memoranda to work out details, in what a source calls talks about the talks .Tentative agreement has been reached on the broad outlines of the dialogue, according to sources familiar with the process, including agreeing to a neutral venue and a mediator, Sweden s state secretary for foreign affairs, Annika S der. President Museveni s family lived in Sweden for many years while in exile and that made the Swedes an easy choice, on top of their relatively neutral foreign policy stance in the region. Agreement has also been reached, in principle, on the main agenda items. The FDC side is keen to have an audit of the 2016 election, which Besigye claims he won. Official results gave Museveni the win with 60.75 per cent, Besigye 35.37 per cent with former Prime Minister Amama Mbabazi with 1.43 per cent. The NRM side wants an agenda item on "law and order" as it seeks to end the defiance campaign that Besigye and a section of the FDC party has been pursuing since the election, and which is often characterised by street clashes between the police and protestors. Despite the progress, suspicions remain high on both sides. History is partly to blame. Former Prime Minister Amama Mbabazi. PHOTO | FILEA few months after the 2011 general elections President Museveni convened a meeting at State House in Entebbe. Mr Mbabazi, then still NRM secretary general was in attendance, as was his deputy, Dorothy Hyuha, First Lady Janet Museveni and generals Salim Saleh, Aronda Nyakairima (chief of defence forces) and Kale Kayihura (Inspector General of police).