The African Institute of Mathematical Sciences (AIMS) launched its campus in Rwanda the sixth on the continent with a special focus on developing scientific innovation and research needed to plug industrialisation gaps. Lack of scientific and technological capacities has been identified as one of the reasons Africa continues to lose value on its resources through export of raw materials instead of processed goods. The institute believes that the next Albert Einstein could be from Africa, a goal they continue to pursue through the Next Albert Einstein initiative. Real transformation in Africa can only happen by developing scientific and technological capacities, this is why we are pleased that Aims is taking on this role, said President Paul Kagame, during the launch. Aims, in partnership with the Rwanda government, plans to launch Quantum Leap Africa in Kigali a world class centre for scientific research and innovation. Sciences like mathematics can play a vital role in driving Africa s industrialisation and there are many opportunities that can be exploited with the digital economy, said Neil Turok, founder of Aims. The institute currently has centres in South Africa, Ghana, Tanzania, Senegal, Cameroon and Rwanda. They plan to open more, with a target of 15 centres of excellence. The centre gives full scholarships to 60 science students and equips them with practical skills to solve existing and emerging problems. The philosophy of Aims is to teach in a different way, to avoid rot learning and instead make it as practical as possible, said Prof Turok. He said there is a disconnection between science and the wellness of the population, which Aims seeks to reverse. This is an opportunity for science to reinvent itself in Africa. We are refocusing science in the service of humanity, he said. Industrialisation in many African countries has lagged behind since the 1970s, a factor which economists have attributed to lack of scientific capacities and innovation to add value to raw materials. Analysts have said Africa continues to lose jobs and economic returns due to gaps in skills and technology needed for the up-stream stages of production. It is through mathematics that people cannot only predict the future, but can create it, said Charles Kimpolo, the senior bilingual programme manager, Aims industry initiative. He said that science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) professionals have to create synergies with industry players to develop innovative solutions to drive industrial growth, and that Rwanda is an ideal location to experiment the innovation solutions. Since the first Industrial Revolution, the rise of labour-intensive light manufacturing (textiles, garments, shoes, and associated tools and machinery) has played a major role in growing national incomes, but Africa has largely lagged behind. The African Institute of Mathematical Sciences (AIMS) launched its campus in Rwanda the sixth on the continent with a special focus on developing scientific innovation and research needed to plug industrialisation gaps.Lack of scientific and technological capacities has been identified as one of the reasons Africa continues to lose value on its resources through export of raw materials instead of processed goods. The institute believes that the next Albert Einstein could be from Africa, a goal they continue to pursue through the Next Albert Einstein initiative. Real transformation in Africa can only happen by developing scientific and technological capacities, this is why we are pleased that Aims is taking on this role, said President Paul Kagame, during the launch. Aims, in partnership with the Rwanda government, plans to launch Quantum Leap Africa in Kigali a world class centre for scientific research and innovation. Sciences like mathematics can play a vital role in driving Africa s industrialisation and there are many opportunities that can be exploited with the digital economy, said Neil Turok, founder of Aims.The institute currently has centres in South Africa, Ghana, Tanzania, Senegal, Cameroon and Rwanda. They plan to open more, with a target of 15 centres of excellence. The centre gives full scholarships to 60 science students and equips them with practical skills to solve existing and emerging problems. The philosophy of Aims is to teach in a different way, to avoid rot learning and instead make it as practical as possible, said Prof Turok.He said there is a disconnection between science and the wellness of the population, which Aims seeks to reverse. This is an opportunity for science to reinvent itself in Africa. We are refocusing science in the service of humanity, he said.Industrialisation in many African countries has lagged behind since the 1970s, a factor which economists have attributed to lack of scientific capacities and innovation to add value to raw materials.Analysts have said Africa continues to lose jobs and economic returns due to gaps in skills and technology needed for the up-stream stages of production. It is through mathematics that people cannot only predict the future, but can create it, said Charles Kimpolo, the senior bilingual programme manager, Aims industry initiative. He said that science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) professionals have to create synergies with industry players to develop innovative solutions to drive industrial growth, and that Rwanda is an ideal location to experiment the innovation solutions. Since the first Industrial Revolution, the rise of labour-intensive light manufacturing (textiles, garments, shoes, and associated tools and machinery) has played a major role in growing national incomes, but Africa has largely lagged behind.