Education, as we commonly talk of it, is that process by which an individual is taken through formal structures that inculcate in him/her a certain body of knowledge and values qualifying them for a useful and serviceable existence. This usually denotes the school system, complete with its classrooms, teachers, syllabuses and books. But there is always another education, which is not that formal, one that is found within societies, which teaches and qualifies people without the structures of classrooms, books or teachers as we know them. The first type of education alluded to here is obviously the one that was brought to us by those who came from afar with the intention of imparting to us enough knowledge to harness us to the yoke of their productive systems and the worship of their gods, both alien to us. The second variety is the one we receive from the ancestors of our land, as handed down from generation to generation, and which enables us to remain attached to our moorings, marching to the rhythms of our ancient heritage. It is easy to abandon the one in favour of the other, and yet the choice is not often made consciously. Obviously, those who could not access formal, imported education continued to be rooted in their traditions, sometimes quite deaf to the sounds of the turning of the wheels of the modern world except as a distant and incomprehensible rumour. And those who succeeded in being swallowed into the wells of that foreign education found themselves completely uprooted from their cultural and moral infrastructures, and flung into unwelcoming and uncomfortable universes where their intelligence was put to the betterment of societies inherently incapable of appreciation. Happy are those, therefore, that can walk on two legs, those whose heads can conquer the distant horizons of the world while their feet are still firmly planted in the fertile soils of their origins, watered by the pristine waters of their rivers. For their action is home-based and home-nourishing, even as their knowledge and abilities are universal. This is why it is important for all who are responsible for the education given to our youngsters to domesticate all the imported knowledge we acquire to make it compatible with our needs and aspirations. It leads to the question of wanting to know what we teach to our young ones relevant enough for us to expend our scarce resources on. I go back to my own imported education at secondary school level. My geography course included a detailed study of Australia s Great Barrier Reef, whose usefulness once I passed the requisite exams remains mysterious to me. Unless, of course, I had had a chance meeting with a pretty Aussie belle I wanted to impress with my perfectly pointless knowledge. Which, alas, didn t come to pass. I do not want to denigrate the idea of world citizenship that can be achieved by getting little minds to wander into such far away things, no I don t. But what about the range of hills just behind my village, which our old folk used to believe contained dangerous spirits and which we were forbidden to try and explore? Wouldn t the application of a little knowledge (of the imported type) have freed our minds earlier on so as to make us inquisitive and questioning? I think these are issues that should preoccupy not only those who are charged with designing our learning and teaching systems, but all of us who should worry about our countries future. A sound educational foundation should comprise the traditional as well as the modern. The traditional does not necessarily render you insular just as the modern does not make you centrifugal; we need to strike a balance: Navigate the world, but home is where the moorings are. Education, as we commonly talk of it, is that process by which an individual is taken through formal structures that inculcate in him/her a certain body of knowledge and values qualifying them for a useful and serviceable existence.This usually denotes the school system, complete with its classrooms, teachers, syllabuses and books. But there is always another education, which is not that formal, one that is found within societies, which teaches and qualifies people without the structures of classrooms, books or teachers as we know them.The first type of education alluded to here is obviously the one that was brought to us by those who came from afar with the intention of imparting to us enough knowledge to harness us to the yoke of their productive systems and the worship of their gods, both alien to us.The second variety is the one we receive from the ancestors of our land, as handed down from generation to generation, and which enables us to remain attached to our moorings, marching to the rhythms of our ancient heritage. It is easy to abandon the one in favour of the other, and yet the choice is not often made consciously. Obviously, those who could not access formal, imported education continued to be rooted in their traditions, sometimes quite deaf to the sounds of the turning of the wheels of the modern world except as a distant and incomprehensible rumour.And those who succeeded in being swallowed into the wells of that foreign education found themselves completely uprooted from their cultural and moral infrastructures, and flung into unwelcoming and uncomfortable universes where their intelligence was put to the betterment of societies inherently incapable of appreciation. Happy are those, therefore, that can walk on two legs, those whose heads can conquer the distant horizons of the world while their feet are still firmly planted in the fertile soils of their origins, watered by the pristine waters of their rivers. For their action is home-based and home-nourishing, even as their knowledge and abilities are universal. This is why it is important for all who are responsible for the education given to our youngsters to domesticate all the imported knowledge we acquire to make it compatible with our needs and aspirations. It leads to the question of wanting to know what we teach to our young ones relevant enough for us to expend our scarce resources on. I go back to my own imported education at secondary school level. My geography course included a detailed study of Australia s Great Barrier Reef, whose usefulness once I passed the requisite exams remains mysterious to me. Unless, of course, I had had a chance meeting with a pretty Aussie belle I wanted to impress with my perfectly pointless knowledge. Which, alas, didn t come to pass.I do not want to denigrate the idea of world citizenship that can be achieved by getting little minds to wander into such far away things, no I don t. But what about the range of hills just behind my village, which our old folk used to believe contained dangerous spirits and which we were forbidden to try and explore? Wouldn t the application of a little knowledge (of the imported type) have freed our minds earlier on so as to make us inquisitive and questioning?I think these are issues that should preoccupy not only those who are charged with designing our learning and teaching systems, but all of us who should worry about our countries future. A sound educational foundation should comprise the traditional as well as the modern. The traditional does not necessarily render you insular just as the modern does not make you centrifugal; we need to strike a balance:Navigate the world, but home is where the moorings are.