Early this month, the Secretary General of the East African Community, EAC, Burundi national Lib rat Mfumukeko, was reported to have dismissed the report of Jamal Benomar, the UN Secretary General, to the UN Security Council on the situation in Burundi. His statement effectively draws the EAC into Burundi s quarrels with the UN. Mr Mfumukeko repeats denials that are now Burundi s stock answer to all criticism and external scrutiny of President Nkurunziza s failings since his third term bid spawned a crisis two years ago. That Mr Mfumukeko can use an EAC institution to push Nkurunziza s agenda stains the reputation of the Secretariat and pinpoints just how gutless the EAC has become. Mr Mfumukeko is a former adviser to President Pierre Nkurunziza. He is also a long-term regime insider, having also served as Director General of Burundi s power and water utility, R gie de Production et Distribution d Eau et d Electricit , REGIDESO. What are East Africans to make of Mr Mfumukeko s statement? Is it the official position of the EAC? Why is the head of the EAC Secretariat speaking for the Burundi government? The EAC treaty explicitly bars the Secretariat which includes its CEO from seeking or receiving instructions from any member state. Moreover, the Secretary General must, under article 72, refrain from any actions , such as Mr Mfumukeko s statement, that reflect adversely on the Community. As it is, the EAC is actively mediating the Burundi conflict. The EAC is also partnering with the AU and the UN in a joint technical working group on that conflict. Why, then, is the CEO of its Secretariat publicly dissing the report of a partner? How can the EAC, as peacemaker, hope to persuade opposition groups whom the Burundi government has studiously refused to meet that it is impartial and committed to a just resolution to the Burundi debacle when it expresses itself in such a partisan manner? The East African Community Secretary-General Liberat Mfumukeko. PHOTO | FILE Danger The immediate danger of Mr Mfumukeko s contempt for the Secretary General s report is that it compromises the EAC s independent assessment of the Secretary General s findings which are detailed and troubling and makes the EAC Secretariat sound like a spokesman for Mr Nkurunziza s government. Mr Mfumukeko s criticism was not set out but it is hard to see what his beef is. The Secretary General s report has dates, figures and places all admiringly set out in succinct and compelling detail. First off, the report notes that the political crisis spawned by Mr Nkurunziza s decision to seek a third term two years ago has only deepened since. The ruling party, named without irony, the Council for the Defence of Democracy Forces for the Restoration of Democracy, CNDD-FDD, has become more repressive. Its raucous and nasty militia, the politically myopic Imbonerakure (those that see far) has grown even nastier, buoyed by official support and the climate of impunity fostered by CNDD-FDD. Described by IRIN as armed, murderous, militarized, partisan, powerful, unaccountable and uneducated the militia has been holding highly charged protests in which it threatens mass rapes and invites youths to impregnate women in order to swell its ranks. The UN s central finding is that little is happening to normalise the situation on the ground; the government claims that all is well notwithstanding. There are two intra-Burundian dialogues underway: an internal dialogue led by National Commission for the Inter-Burundian Dialogue (CNDI) and an external dialogue under the EAC with President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda as mediator and former president Benjamin Mkapa of Tanzania as facilitator. As the report notes, the government-led intra-Burundian dialogue is neither seen as a real dialogue nor as inclusive enough by some groups; some of its recommendations inflame rather than douse passions. Last year, it called for abolition of presidential term-limits altogether and proposed a raft of additional amendments that would undo many of the commitments in the 2000 Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement. The assessment is that this internal dialogue is narrow and pro-establishment. Mr Nkuruzinza refuses to engage the leaders of Stop the third term movement, many now in exile. The EAC has, to its credit in an otherwise discreditable policy- rejected President Nkurunziza s proposal to return the EAC dialogue to Burundi and merge it with the CNDI process, recognising, perhaps, that such a move would hand Mr Nkurunziza all the cards. The external dialogue has fared no better, sputtering along in fits and starts and bedeviled by East Africa s self-serving Summit politics. Last year, the EAC Summit promised to engage all parties to the conflict in a serious and inclusive way and without preconditions . But the tone of the Community s talk with Nkurunziza remains indulgent and timorous. Early this month, the Secretary General of the East African Community, EAC, Burundi national Lib rat Mfumukeko, was reported to have dismissed the report of Jamal Benomar, the UN Secretary General, to the UN Security Council on the situation in Burundi. His statement effectively draws the EAC into Burundi s quarrels with the UN.Mr Mfumukeko repeats denials that are now Burundi s stock answer to all criticism and external scrutiny of President Nkurunziza s failings since his third term bid spawned a crisis two years ago. That Mr Mfumukeko can use an EAC institution to push Nkurunziza s agenda stains the reputation of the Secretariat and pinpoints just how gutless the EAC has become.Mr Mfumukeko is a former adviser to President Pierre Nkurunziza. He is also a long-term regime insider, having also served as Director General of Burundi s power and water utility, R gie de Production et Distribution d Eau et d Electricit , REGIDESO. What are East Africans to make of Mr Mfumukeko s statement?Is it the official position of the EAC? Why is the head of the EAC Secretariat speaking for the Burundi government? The EAC treaty explicitly bars the Secretariat which includes its CEO from seeking or receiving instructions from any member state. Moreover, the Secretary General must, under article 72, refrain from any actions , such as Mr Mfumukeko s statement, that reflect adversely on the Community.As it is, the EAC is actively mediating the Burundi conflict. The EAC is also partnering with the AU and the UN in a joint technical working group on that conflict. Why, then, is the CEO of its Secretariat publicly dissing the report of a partner? How can the EAC, as peacemaker, hope to persuade opposition groups whom the Burundi government has studiously refused to meet that it is impartial and committed to a just resolution to the Burundi debacle when it expresses itself in such a partisan manner? The East African Community Secretary-General Liberat Mfumukeko. PHOTO | FILEDanger The immediate danger of Mr Mfumukeko s contempt for the Secretary General s report is that it compromises the EAC s independent assessment of the Secretary General s findings which are detailed and troubling and makes the EAC Secretariat sound like a spokesman for Mr Nkurunziza s government.Mr Mfumukeko s criticism was not set out but it is hard to see what his beef is. The Secretary General s report has dates, figures and places all admiringly set out in succinct and compelling detail. First off, the report notes that the political crisis spawned by Mr Nkurunziza s decision to seek a third term two years ago has only deepened since. The ruling party, named without irony, the Council for the Defence of Democracy Forces for the Restoration of Democracy, CNDD-FDD, has become more repressive. Its raucous and nasty militia, the politically myopic Imbonerakure (those that see far) has grown even nastier, buoyed by official support and the climate of impunity fostered by CNDD-FDD. Described by IRIN as armed, murderous, militarized, partisan, powerful, unaccountable and uneducated the militia has been holding highly charged protests in which it threatens mass rapes and invites youths to impregnate women in order to swell its ranks. The UN s central finding is that little is happening to normalise the situation on the ground; the government claims that all is well notwithstanding. There are two intra-Burundian dialogues underway: an internal dialogue led by National Commission for the Inter-Burundian Dialogue (CNDI) and an external dialogue under the EAC with President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda as mediator and former president Benjamin Mkapa of Tanzania as facilitator. As the report notes, the government-led intra-Burundian dialogue is neither seen as a real dialogue nor as inclusive enough by some groups; some of its recommendations inflame rather than douse passions. Last year, it called for abolition of presidential term-limits altogether and proposed a raft of additional amendments that would undo many of the commitments in the 2000 Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement. The assessment is that this internal dialogue is narrow and pro-establishment. Mr Nkuruzinza refuses to engage the leaders of Stop the third term movement, many now in exile. The EAC has, to its credit in an otherwise discreditable policy- rejected President Nkurunziza s proposal to return the EAC dialogue to Burundi and merge it with the CNDI process, recognising, perhaps, that such a move would hand Mr Nkurunziza all the cards. The external dialogue has fared no better, sputtering along in fits and starts and bedeviled by East Africa s self-serving Summit politics. Last year, the EAC Summit promised to engage all parties to the conflict in a serious and inclusive way and without preconditions . But the tone of the Community s talk with Nkurunziza remains indulgent and timorous.