Massive debts, dwindling sales and rising competition have forced two Kenyan supermarket chains to rethink their regional strategies and concentrate on safeguarding their local market. Nakumatt and Uchumi Supermarkets, which a decade ago opened regional branches, are now at a point of reviewing their regional strategies to focus on the home market, after sinking deep into financial woes. The two retail chains, whose outlets are characterised by empty shelves due to their inability to pay suppliers and meet other financial obligations, are now betting on strategic investors to turn around their fortunes. According to analysts, Nakumatt and Uchumi are operating on shaky ground and must sort out their problems with suppliers, modernise operations, re-energise their brands and carry out consolidation to remain competitive. The issue of late payments is particularly affecting their business, said Ken Gichinga, chief economist at Mentoria Consulting. "It does not make business sense, for instance, for Nakumatt to proclaim all under one roof when the shelves are empty. He said that the regional market is no longer a priority for the retailers owing to the challenges in the home market. The reality that focus on the regional market is no longer feasible came to the fore yet again this week after Nakumatt was forced to close its Katwe branch in Muganzirwazza Mall in Kampala owing to rent arrears amounting to $82,000. Its other eight branches in Uganda, five in Tanzania and three in Rwanda however, remain operational. Departure of a director The supermarket chain also saw the departure of Thiagarajan Ramamurthy, who was the regional strategy and operations director. He oversaw the rolling out the company s pan-Africa expansion programme. Mr Ramamurthy has joined Bidco Africa as CEO. The EastAfrican has also established that on its part, Uchumi Supermarkets has no plans to return to the regional market in the immediate future and intends to concentrate on the Kenyan market. We have many unresolved issues with suppliers and business partners in Uganda and Tanzania. Until these issues are settled there are no plans to go regional anytime soon, said a source at the company. Uchumi, which exited the Ugandan and Tanzanian market in 2015 after years of loss making, is yet to settle millions of dollars owed to suppliers in those countries. Before its exit, the outlets accounted for only 4.75 per cent of its operations and over 25 per cent of operating costs. While it is evident that both Nakumatt and Uchumi feel the regional strategy has largely failed to spur the growth despite offering a market of about 100 million people, the two supermarket chains are also feeling the pressure in the domestic market where competition is on the rise. To safeguard their local markets, Nakumatt and Uchumi are currently in negotiations with strategic investors seeking to raise $75 million and $47.4 million respectively. Massive debts, dwindling sales and rising competition have forced two Kenyan supermarket chains to rethink their regional strategies and concentrate on safeguarding their local market.Nakumatt and Uchumi Supermarkets, which a decade ago opened regional branches, are now at a point of reviewing their regional strategies to focus on the home market, after sinking deep into financial woes. The two retail chains, whose outlets are characterised by empty shelves due to their inability to pay suppliers and meet other financial obligations, are now betting on strategic investors to turn around their fortunes. According to analysts, Nakumatt and Uchumi are operating on shaky ground and must sort out their problems with suppliers, modernise operations, re-energise their brands and carry out consolidation to remain competitive. The issue of late payments is particularly affecting their business, said Ken Gichinga, chief economist at Mentoria Consulting. "It does not make business sense, for instance, for Nakumatt to proclaim all under one roof when the shelves are empty. He said that the regional market is no longer a priority for the retailers owing to the challenges in the home market.The reality that focus on the regional market is no longer feasible came to the fore yet again this week after Nakumatt was forced to close its Katwe branch in Muganzirwazza Mall in Kampala owing to rent arrears amounting to $82,000. Its other eight branches in Uganda, five in Tanzania and three in Rwanda however, remain operational. Departure of a director The supermarket chain also saw the departure of Thiagarajan Ramamurthy, who was the regional strategy and operations director.He oversaw the rolling out the company s pan-Africa expansion programme. Mr Ramamurthy has joined Bidco Africa as CEO. The EastAfrican has also established that on its part, Uchumi Supermarkets has no plans to return to the regional market in the immediate future and intends to concentrate on the Kenyan market. We have many unresolved issues with suppliers and business partners in Uganda and Tanzania. Until these issues are settled there are no plans to go regional anytime soon, said a source at the company.Uchumi, which exited the Ugandan and Tanzanian market in 2015 after years of loss making, is yet to settle millions of dollars owed to suppliers in those countries. Before its exit, the outlets accounted for only 4.75 per cent of its operations and over 25 per cent of operating costs.While it is evident that both Nakumatt and Uchumi feel the regional strategy has largely failed to spur the growth despite offering a market of about 100 million people, the two supermarket chains are also feeling the pressure in the domestic market where competition is on the rise.To safeguard their local markets, Nakumatt and Uchumi are currently in negotiations with strategic investors seeking to raise $75 million and $47.4 million respectively.