Rwanda is still grappling with complex post genocide issues such as how to help children born out of rape, genocide denial, ideology and trauma. Rape was widely used as a weapon by Interahamwe militias and other genocide perpetrators, with estimates showing that over 500,000 women were raped during that period, resulting in more than 20,000 births. These children have largely been left out of post-genocidal support programmes, partly because based on policy they are not considered victims of genocide because they were born after December 31, 1994. The issue of children born out of genocidal rape is still a major problem because they are now almost 23 years old and suffer from identity problems. They need to be helped to overcome a painful history, like is the case with genocide survivors, said Jean Pierre Dusingizemungu, the president of Ibuka. Besides struggling with the psychological damage caused by the grim truth behind their existence, many have suffered severe socio-economic challenges, with a number lacking an education. The Genocide Survivors Assistance Fund (Farge), which caters for the educational needs of survivors, has excluded these children because they do not fit the definition of survivors. Although some organisations have included them in their programmes, a lot still needs to be done. Dr Dusingizemungu said there are other government programmes that can provide the help they need. They don t necessarily have to get help from Farge for them to be helped, MINALOC also has programmes that help vulnerable people and children in need, said Dr Dusingizemungu. Some people feel that the government should come up with a special fund or programme to help them. How many programmes or funds should there be? There are many programmes already, so they shouldn t feel excluded, he said. He said that genocide ideology still remains a problem in the country. The hatred and hardness of heart has not completely gone and many people are still in touch with genocide deniers, which fuels the ideology, he said. Parliament recently discussed the matter, with some legislators proposing that Farge should include the children born of genocidal rape in its programme. However, it seems that nothing conclusive has come out of the discussions. Florence Batoni, the co-ordinator of peace building programmes at Never Again Rwanda said that many children born of genocidal rape face challenges such as poverty and other unique problems in their day-to-day lives. They have serious identity and self-esteem problems and they need serious psycho-socio help, she said. Rwanda is still grappling with complex post genocide issues such as how to help children born out of rape, genocide denial, ideology and trauma.Rape was widely used as a weapon by Interahamwe militias and other genocide perpetrators, with estimates showing that over 500,000 women were raped during that period, resulting in more than 20,000 births. These children have largely been left out of post-genocidal support programmes, partly because based on policy they are not considered victims of genocide because they were born after December 31, 1994. The issue of children born out of genocidal rape is still a major problem because they are now almost 23 years old and suffer from identity problems. They need to be helped to overcome a painful history, like is the case with genocide survivors, said Jean Pierre Dusingizemungu, the president of Ibuka.Besides struggling with the psychological damage caused by the grim truth behind their existence, many have suffered severe socio-economic challenges, with a number lacking an education.The Genocide Survivors Assistance Fund (Farge), which caters for the educational needs of survivors, has excluded these children because they do not fit the definition of survivors. Although some organisations have included them in their programmes, a lot still needs to be done. Dr Dusingizemungu said there are other government programmes that can provide the help they need. They don t necessarily have to get help from Farge for them to be helped, MINALOC also has programmes that help vulnerable people and children in need, said Dr Dusingizemungu.Some people feel that the government should come up with a special fund or programme to help them. How many programmes or funds should there be? There are many programmes already, so they shouldn t feel excluded, he said.He said that genocide ideology still remains a problem in the country. The hatred and hardness of heart has not completely gone and many people are still in touch with genocide deniers, which fuels the ideology, he said.Parliament recently discussed the matter, with some legislators proposing that Farge should include the children born of genocidal rape in its programme. However, it seems that nothing conclusive has come out of the discussions.Florence Batoni, the co-ordinator of peace building programmes at Never Again Rwanda said that many children born of genocidal rape face challenges such as poverty and other unique problems in their day-to-day lives. They have serious identity and self-esteem problems and they need serious psycho-socio help, she said.