Part-time tutors at the University of Rwanda s open learning programmes are on the verge of throwing in the towel after going for months without pay and uncertainty over the future of their contracts. This is the latest in a string of challenges that have besieged the four-year old university that manages 19 colleges. More than 120 tutors from 10 distance learning centres countrywide say they have not received any payment over the past 18 months. The contracts of most of the lecturers expired last October, but they are yet to receive official communication on whether they will be renewed. The lecturers, however, continue to teach. It is difficult for most of us to survive without pay for this long. I personally cannot afford to keep teaching and I am not alone, said a tutor at Nyundo Centre who requested anonymity. Students who should be graduating based on the set timetable, will be affected because there are no tutors to teach them, he added. The tutors told Rwanda Today that the arrears had accumulated to between Rwf400,000 and Rwf 860,000 per tutor, calculated using per hour spent teaching. The University of Rwanda has over 120 part-time tutors in 10 distance training centres linked to its College of Education. The centres, which were created to solve the shortage of qualified secondary school teachers, include four Face-to-Face Regional Training Centres and six Provincial Training Centres. It is at these centres that secondary school teachers seeking to get an advanced Diploma in Education are admitted. Each distance training centre enrols about 500 students who either study on weekends or attend full-time intensive courses during the school holidays. Part of the challenges come from the centralisation of services, which were previously managed by the 19 public tertiary colleges. This has complicated operations and compromised efficiency. According to a recent report by the Senate, the University of Rwanda is facing huge financial shortfalls, hurting the smooth running of its daily operations. Rwanda Today understands that the funding required to pay tutors was supposed to come from the National Capacity Building Secretariat. However, funds have not been disbursed owing to bureaucracy created from merging the 19 public tertiary colleges into one University. According to sources, University of Rwanda s operational challenges could be fuelling the looming reorganisation of some of its colleges, which will likely see campuses merged into fewer learning centres. Part-time tutors at the University of Rwanda s open learning programmes are on the verge of throwing in the towel after going for months without pay and uncertainty over the future of their contracts.This is the latest in a string of challenges that have besieged the four-year old university that manages 19 colleges.More than 120 tutors from 10 distance learning centres countrywide say they have not received any payment over the past 18 months.The contracts of most of the lecturers expired last October, but they are yet to receive official communication on whether they will be renewed. The lecturers, however, continue to teach. It is difficult for most of us to survive without pay for this long. I personally cannot afford to keep teaching and I am not alone, said a tutor at Nyundo Centre who requested anonymity. Students who should be graduating based on the set timetable, will be affected because there are no tutors to teach them, he added.The tutors told Rwanda Today that the arrears had accumulated to between Rwf400,000 and Rwf 860,000 per tutor, calculated using per hour spent teaching. The University of Rwanda has over 120 part-time tutors in 10 distance training centres linked to its College of Education. The centres, which were created to solve the shortage of qualified secondary school teachers, include four Face-to-Face Regional Training Centres and six Provincial Training Centres.It is at these centres that secondary school teachers seeking to get an advanced Diploma in Education are admitted. Each distance training centre enrols about 500 students who either study on weekends or attend full-time intensive courses during the school holidays.Part of the challenges come from the centralisation of services, which were previously managed by the 19 public tertiary colleges. This has complicated operations and compromised efficiency.According to a recent report by the Senate, the University of Rwanda is facing huge financial shortfalls, hurting the smooth running of its daily operations. Rwanda Today understands that the funding required to pay tutors was supposed to come from the National Capacity Building Secretariat.However, funds have not been disbursed owing to bureaucracy created from merging the 19 public tertiary colleges into one University.According to sources, University of Rwanda s operational challenges could be fuelling the looming reorganisation of some of its colleges, which will likely see campuses merged into fewer learning centres.