The party primaries by Kenyan political parties started on April 13, with the usual controversies and violence. As in previous such exercises, Kenyan political parties have failed to keep to the tenets of democracy when holding their nominations, with no clear guidelines on who is eligible to vote. This was the case with the Orange Democratic Party nominations in Busia County, where the numbers who voted turned out to be more than the registered voters in some constituencies. The large voter turnout in Busia is thus an indication that some voters were brought in from outside the country, which is a travesty of democracy. The contest between Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and his challenger, Dr Paul Otuoma, has since been nullified by the ODM election board due to irregularities, but that does not take away from the fact that the party was ill-prepared. ODM and many other parties such as Jubilee, launched their nominations despite having no mechanism to prevent non-members from participating. The bottom line is that no party in Kenya is sure of the exact numbers of their membership. Since the re-introduction of political pluralism in 1991, political party nominations remains the weakest link in the Kenya s efforts to entrench multiparty democracy. The nomination certificates are often dished out to party financiers rather than allowing the party members to decide, leading to last-minute defections that make nonsense of party loyalty and ideology. After the chaotic 2013 party nominations, Kenyans had hoped that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) would come up with strict guidelines to address the perennial problem. In January 2017, IEBC published the Elections Operation Plan for 2017, with a section of it seeking to address how to improve the quality of party nominations for the 2017 election. However, it has not been effective because the IEBC that is supposed to monitor party nominations is itself racing against time to organise the general election because it is far behind its set timelines. The IEBC has therefore left it to political parties to design and submit their set of internal rules to govern their nominations. Still, there are encouraging signs that political parties have taken seriously cases of indiscipline and violence. ODM, has for instance, taken disciplinary action against two of its aspirants who orchestrated violence against their opponents recently. Migori Governor Okoth Obado has been fined $20,000 for organising violence in Migiro, while nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro was fined $10,000 for causing violence at the party headquarters and directed to contest in a constituency other than Ruaraka. That means that Ms Ongoro is likely to be locked out of the August election despite later defecting to the Amani National Congress, since her name had been gazetted by IEBC as an ODM member. The sanctions are a slap on the wrist compared with the injuries the two have inflicted on the image of the party, but it is a starting point to deter violence and indiscipline within political parties. The party primaries by Kenyan political parties started on April 13, with the usual controversies and violence.As in previous such exercises, Kenyan political parties have failed to keep to the tenets of democracy when holding their nominations, with no clear guidelines on who is eligible to vote. This was the case with the Orange Democratic Party nominations in Busia County, where the numbers who voted turned out to be more than the registered voters in some constituencies.The large voter turnout in Busia is thus an indication that some voters were brought in from outside the country, which is a travesty of democracy.The contest between Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and his challenger, Dr Paul Otuoma, has since been nullified by the ODM election board due to irregularities, but that does not take away from the fact that the party was ill-prepared. ODM and many other parties such as Jubilee, launched their nominations despite having no mechanism to prevent non-members from participating. The bottom line is that no party in Kenya is sure of the exact numbers of their membership. Since the re-introduction of political pluralism in 1991, political party nominations remains the weakest link in the Kenya s efforts to entrench multiparty democracy.The nomination certificates are often dished out to party financiers rather than allowing the party members to decide, leading to last-minute defections that make nonsense of party loyalty and ideology. After the chaotic 2013 party nominations, Kenyans had hoped that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) would come up with strict guidelines to address the perennial problem.In January 2017, IEBC published the Elections Operation Plan for 2017, with a section of it seeking to address how to improve the quality of party nominations for the 2017 election.However, it has not been effective because the IEBC that is supposed to monitor party nominations is itself racing against time to organise the general election because it is far behind its set timelines. The IEBC has therefore left it to political parties to design and submit their set of internal rules to govern their nominations.Still, there are encouraging signs that political parties have taken seriously cases of indiscipline and violence. ODM, has for instance, taken disciplinary action against two of its aspirants who orchestrated violence against their opponents recently.Migori Governor Okoth Obado has been fined $20,000 for organising violence in Migiro, while nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro was fined $10,000 for causing violence at the party headquarters and directed to contest in a constituency other than Ruaraka. That means that Ms Ongoro is likely to be locked out of the August election despite later defecting to the Amani National Congress, since her name had been gazetted by IEBC as an ODM member. The sanctions are a slap on the wrist compared with the injuries the two have inflicted on the image of the party, but it is a starting point to deter violence and indiscipline within political parties.