African Union members states have converged on Addis Ababa to, among others, elect the new chairperson of the AU Commission as well as eight other commissioners. The bloc will also deliberate the re-admission of Morocco. It quit in 1984 to protest recognition and admission of the Sahrawi Republic to the Organisation of African Unity (OAU), the AU predecessor. Rabat considers Sahrawi Republic part of its territory. READ: African Union to mull divisive Morocco bid to rejoin bloc Here is how the programme of the meeting looks like: Meeting Heads of state are expected to hold a closed-door meeting from 9am (0600 GMT). Kagame Report After the meeting, the union will adopt a report prepared by President Paul Kagame and his team on how to reform the AU and make it a more financially independent. Kagame report has suggested that AU members fund the organisation through a 0.2 per cent levy on imports. Kenya, Ethiopia, Chad and Senegal say they have already set up escrow accounts to collect these money and remit it to the AU. READ: President Kagame picks dream team to drive AU independence But the confusion is on which type of imports the levy applies. Ideally, the Kagame report implies that goods coming into Africa from elsewhere but this could upset existing trade agreements between individual African countries and the outside world. The Kagame team was tasked to draw up proposals after it emerged the AU is reliant on donor funds. African Union members states have converged on Addis Ababa to, among others, elect the new chairperson of the AU Commission as well as eight other commissioners. The bloc will also deliberate the re-admission of Morocco. It quit in 1984 to protest recognition and admission of the Sahrawi Republic to the Organisation of African Unity (OAU), the AU predecessor.Rabat considers Sahrawi Republic part of its territory.READ: African Union to mull divisive Morocco bid to rejoin blocHere is how the programme of the meeting looks like:Heads of state are expected to hold a closed-door meeting from 9am (0600 GMT).After the meeting, the union will adopt a report prepared by President Paul Kagame and his team on how to reform the AU and make it a more financially independent. Kagame report has suggested that AU members fund the organisation through a 0.2 per cent levy on imports. Kenya, Ethiopia, Chad and Senegal say they have already set up escrow accounts to collect these money and remit it to the AU.READ: President Kagame picks dream team to drive AU independenceBut the confusion is on which type of imports the levy applies. Ideally, the Kagame report implies that goods coming into Africa from elsewhere but this could upset existing trade agreements between individual African countries and the outside world. The Kagame team was tasked to draw up proposals after it emerged the AU is reliant on donor funds.