Decentralised units are suffering the effects from poor service delivery after several key officials quit. The resignations, which started in 2015 have left more than 560 local government positions vacant. This is the third week I have come to register a death but they keep telling me to wait for the incoming executive secretary to sign on the document, said Daphrose Kamatamu, a resident of Ngoma sector in Rulindo district. We are left in suspense with no definite indication of when a replacement will be made or what else we can do, she added. Twenty-six couples from Muhondo sector in Gakenke District in Northern Province, could not legalise their unions last month because the ES s office was not occupied. The office has been vacant since October 2016. Both the Ministry of Local Government and that of Public Service and Labour, say the vacant offices were the result of normal occupational mobility although some officers had been forced to resign over poor performance. Executive secretaries are central to the functioning of local governments at the sector level. Among the gazetted tasks of an executive secretary are registration of civil marriages at both the sector and cell level and enforcing court decisions. The issue came to light during the Ombudsman s January 20, appearance before the Committee of Social Affairs and Human Rights and Petitions of the Senate that was reviewing the rights and anti-graft watchdog s performance for 2016/17. Senators said missing executive secretaries were a major hindrance to service delivery. Senators expressed concern over the rising backlog of cases in lower courts because the offices of executive secretaries had no substantive occupants. Something has to be done ...because a mounting case backlog at both local government or in the Ombudsman office, is partly a result of these resignations, said Jean Damascene Ntawukuriryayo, a member of the committee. The Ministry of Local Government however said officers who fail to perform will be relieved of their duties. Apart from filing the vacant positions, the Ombudsman recommended delegation of some of the executive secretaries roles to other workers as a stopgap measure. We have asked the Senate to consider revisions to the law that would create a framework for delegation of tasks within the local government structure to avert the issues that are now emerging, Chief Ombudsman Aloysie Cyanzayire told Rwanda Today. The ministry of public service and labour says recruitment of new officers had started while the rules for delegation of roles were also being developed. The reasons for the resignations were also being investigated. Decentralised units are suffering the effects from poor service delivery after several key officials quit. The resignations, which started in 2015 have left more than 560 local government positions vacant. This is the third week I have come to register a death but they keep telling me to wait for the incoming executive secretary to sign on the document, said Daphrose Kamatamu, a resident of Ngoma sector in Rulindo district. We are left in suspense with no definite indication of when a replacement will be made or what else we can do, she added.Twenty-six couples from Muhondo sector in Gakenke District in Northern Province, could not legalise their unions last month because the ES s office was not occupied. The office has been vacant since October 2016.Both the Ministry of Local Government and that of Public Service and Labour, say the vacant offices were the result of normal occupational mobility although some officers had been forced to resign over poor performance. Executive secretaries are central to the functioning of local governments at the sector level. Among the gazetted tasks of an executive secretary are registration of civil marriages at both the sector and cell level and enforcing court decisions.The issue came to light during the Ombudsman s January 20, appearance before the Committee of Social Affairs and Human Rights and Petitions of the Senate that was reviewing the rights and anti-graft watchdog s performance for 2016/17. Senators said missing executive secretaries were a major hindrance to service delivery. Senators expressed concern over the rising backlog of cases in lower courts because the offices of executive secretaries had no substantive occupants. Something has to be done ...because a mounting case backlog at both local government or in the Ombudsman office, is partly a result of these resignations, said Jean Damascene Ntawukuriryayo, a member of the committee.The Ministry of Local Government however said officers who fail to perform will be relieved of their duties.Apart from filing the vacant positions, the Ombudsman recommended delegation of some of the executive secretaries roles to other workers as a stopgap measure. We have asked the Senate to consider revisions to the law that would create a framework for delegation of tasks within the local government structure to avert the issues that are now emerging, Chief Ombudsman Aloysie Cyanzayire told Rwanda Today.The ministry of public service and labour says recruitment of new officers had started while the rules for delegation of roles were also being developed. The reasons for the resignations were also being investigated.