A Kenyan public figure who, in the 1980s, suffered terribly at the hands of the government of president Daniel arap Moi was the outspoken environmental campaigner, women s rights champion and political activist Prof Wangari Maathai. When I first met Wangari, back in 1977, on World Environment Day (June 5), she was leading a colourful march by members of the National Council of Women through central Nairobi to plant trees in the Kamukunji grounds in the east of the city. This march, the first of many, would go down as the beginning of what later came to be known as the Green Belt Movement. I stayed in touch with Wangari, who was then still working as an associate professor in veterinary anatomy at the University of Nairobi. In 1982, she left the university to vie for the vacant parliamentary seat in her rural home of Nyeri, in Central Province. Her political ambitions were, however, thwarted when a Nairobi court, disqualified her from running. Then, when the university declined to reinstate her, she worked full time on expanding the reach of her environmental work with the NCWK, encouraging women s groups countrywide to grow seedlings in nurseries and to rehabilitate degraded and impoverished land by planting trees. It was at this time that a Scandinavian television syndicate contacted me, wanting my help in identifying off-beat, human-interest topics that might be worth filming in Kenya. Without hesitation, I suggested the making of a short documentary about Wangari Maathai and her tree-planting crusade. The Scandinavian crew, headed by Halle Jorn Hanssen of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation, duly arrived, and together we went to see Wangari, before embarking with her on a tour of some of her tree nurseries projects. Wangari was always a joy to film. Her passion and commitment was contagious, and she was also very well spoken, humorous, and fun to be with. The Scandinavians were smitten with her from the onset. Green Belt Movement Hanssen went on, soon afterwards, to become an influential figure in Norway, as the director of information and communications with the Norwegian Development Assistance Agency (Norad), under the Norwegian Ministry of Development Co-operation. In this capacity, Hanssen was able, later in 1982, to engineer a partnership with the Norwegian Forestry Society (headed by Wilhelm Elsrud) under which the government of Norway would provide funding for Wangari s fledgling environmental agency, by now known officially as the Green Belt Movement. With more funding from other donors, including the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Women, Wangari was able to expand the operations of the Green Belt Movement, hiring staff to oversee tree planting around the country, while paying out stipends to women and men in poor communities, for planting seedlings and establishing nurseries. At around this time, Wangari also found a modest headquarters for her movement in the old wood-and-corrugated-iron shacks erected in early colonial days, between what is now Nairobi s Central Police Station and the Globe Cinema Roundabout. Wangari was in the habit of asking me, often at impossibly short notice, to make short films about the work of the Green Belt Movement, which she could then use to illustrate talks and presentations that she had been asked to give at environment conferences and summit meetings around the world. I recall one of her film requests in particular. This was on the afternoon of July 15, 1985. The concluding conference of the United Nations Decade for Women (1976-1985), then taking place at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre in Nairobi, had just started, and Wangari was one of the keynote speakers. Cornered A Kenyan public figure who, in the 1980s, suffered terribly at the hands of the government of president Daniel arap Moi was the outspoken environmental campaigner, women s rights champion and political activist Prof Wangari Maathai. When I first met Wangari, back in 1977, on World Environment Day (June 5), she was leading a colourful march by members of the National Council of Women through central Nairobi to plant trees in the Kamukunji grounds in the east of the city. This march, the first of many, would go down as the beginning of what later came to be known as the Green Belt Movement. I stayed in touch with Wangari, who was then still working as an associate professor in veterinary anatomy at the University of Nairobi.In 1982, she left the university to vie for the vacant parliamentary seat in her rural home of Nyeri, in Central Province. Her political ambitions were, however, thwarted when a Nairobi court, disqualified her from running.Then, when the university declined to reinstate her, she worked full time on expanding the reach of her environmental work with the NCWK, encouraging women s groups countrywide to grow seedlings in nurseries and to rehabilitate degraded and impoverished land by planting trees.It was at this time that a Scandinavian television syndicate contacted me, wanting my help in identifying off-beat, human-interest topics that might be worth filming in Kenya. Without hesitation, I suggested the making of a short documentary about Wangari Maathai and her tree-planting crusade. The Scandinavian crew, headed by Halle Jorn Hanssen of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation, duly arrived, and together we went to see Wangari, before embarking with her on a tour of some of her tree nurseries projects.Wangari was always a joy to film. Her passion and commitment was contagious, and she was also very well spoken, humorous, and fun to be with. The Scandinavians were smitten with her from the onset. Green Belt MovementHanssen went on, soon afterwards, to become an influential figure in Norway, as the director of information and communications with the Norwegian Development Assistance Agency (Norad), under the Norwegian Ministry of Development Co-operation. In this capacity, Hanssen was able, later in 1982, to engineer a partnership with the Norwegian Forestry Society (headed by Wilhelm Elsrud) under which the government of Norway would provide funding for Wangari s fledgling environmental agency, by now known officially as the Green Belt Movement.With more funding from other donors, including the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Women, Wangari was able to expand the operations of the Green Belt Movement, hiring staff to oversee tree planting around the country, while paying out stipends to women and men in poor communities, for planting seedlings and establishing nurseries. At around this time, Wangari also found a modest headquarters for her movement in the old wood-and-corrugated-iron shacks erected in early colonial days, between what is now Nairobi s Central Police Station and the Globe Cinema Roundabout. Wangari was in the habit of asking me, often at impossibly short notice, to make short films about the work of the Green Belt Movement, which she could then use to illustrate talks and presentations that she had been asked to give at environment conferences and summit meetings around the world. I recall one of her film requests in particular. This was on the afternoon of July 15, 1985. The concluding conference of the United Nations Decade for Women (1976-1985), then taking place at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre in Nairobi, had just started, and Wangari was one of the keynote speakers. Cornered