I has never seen a child on a leash. So you can imagine what crossed my mind when I saw this kid, hardly three years old, on a child leash aboard an aircraft. The kid on the leash was dishing out terror in the aisle with ease, only limited by the restraint. At the other end of the leash was a bloodshot-eyed middle aged male who looked beat. He looked like he was about to give up on life itself. Next to him was a woman who I will assume was his wife with an infant on her lap. She was out cold snoring and drooling away. The body posture suggested exhaustion. The infant on her lap was using its brand-new set of grinders to shred and gnaw away at a copy of the inflight magazine, already soaked in baby saliva. As I settled into my seat across the aisle from this couple, I had mixed feelings of relief for not being in their situation and elation for having a set of seats to myself. This feeling was not to last for long as an inquisitive seven-year-old boy with dorky glasses who I later learnt was their oldest son joined me as my seat-mate. He was restless, unsettled and kept peeking at my computer. I probably shouldn t have answered his first question but I did then he kept me engaged and sweating for answers three hours into the flight. The lad wanted to know what I did for a living, if I had kids, if he could play games on my Tablet, if I could sneak him some candy without his parents seeing the requests were endless. Let s just say by the time his parents woke up, I knew more about that family than any immigration officer they were to interact with that day. The whole while as we chatted, the younger kid on the leash had taken advantage of the sleeping father and strolled off to the galley where he kept the cabin crew busy with his demands. That is after waking up a passenger or two on his way. If you have been on a flight with a child, I am sure you can identify with the above scenario. Worst case is going on a long-haul flight with two or three of them, all under the age of nine. Travelling with kids, even if not always interesting and fun, should certainly be easier than the experience many parents go through. Just how supportive are airlines to those travelling with minors? I has never seen a child on a leash. So you can imagine what crossed my mind when I saw this kid, hardly three years old, on a child leash aboard an aircraft. The kid on the leash was dishing out terror in the aisle with ease, only limited by the restraint. At the other end of the leash was a bloodshot-eyed middle aged male who looked beat. He looked like he was about to give up on life itself. Next to him was a woman who I will assume was his wife with an infant on her lap. She was out cold snoring and drooling away. The body posture suggested exhaustion. The infant on her lap was using its brand-new set of grinders to shred and gnaw away at a copy of the inflight magazine, already soaked in baby saliva.As I settled into my seat across the aisle from this couple, I had mixed feelings of relief for not being in their situation and elation for having a set of seats to myself. This feeling was not to last for long as an inquisitive seven-year-old boy with dorky glasses who I later learnt was their oldest son joined me as my seat-mate. He was restless, unsettled and kept peeking at my computer. I probably shouldn t have answered his first question but I did then he kept me engaged and sweating for answers three hours into the flight.The lad wanted to know what I did for a living, if I had kids, if he could play games on my Tablet, if I could sneak him some candy without his parents seeing the requests were endless. Let s just say by the time his parents woke up, I knew more about that family than any immigration officer they were to interact with that day.The whole while as we chatted, the younger kid on the leash had taken advantage of the sleeping father and strolled off to the galley where he kept the cabin crew busy with his demands. That is after waking up a passenger or two on his way.If you have been on a flight with a child, I am sure you can identify with the above scenario. Worst case is going on a long-haul flight with two or three of them, all under the age of nine. Travelling with kids, even if not always interesting and fun, should certainly be easier than the experience many parents go through.Just how supportive are airlines to those travelling with minors?