If you fret about what you eat in your quest for a healthy lifestyle, you are not alone. This year I resolved to eat healthy, so I sought the help of Molly Parker, the owner of Turambe Shoppe. She is a registered dietician living in Kigali. Located in Kacyiru, just behind the entrance to the US embassy, Turambe is the perfect place for anyone looking for healthy meal. A wooden board that says Turambe Shoppe est. 2016 directs you to the eatery. Turambe, which means live long in Kinyarwanda, was started when Molly couldn t find a job in Kigali. Her husband was already working in Rwanda. She saw an opportunity to teach nutrition, and to make healthy, affordable salads. An Eat Well sign at the bar inside adds to the d cor that creates an organic atmosphere while you order your meal out of the fridge. Molly also holds classes and open days to teach how to maintain a healthy lifestyle by watching what we eat. We hold classes to help people come up with a healthy meal plan. The class takes four hours at a cost of Rwf15,000 ($18) consultations included, said Molly. The classes include a weight management workshop. My dream is not to have people flock here, although it would be good for business. All I want is for people to cook healthy food for themselves, she added. The eatery caters for special dietary requirements such as gluten intolerance, vegan, and paleo. We get organic food from two delivery companies Fresh Basket Delivery, which is online, and a private farm that also helps vulnerable children to pay for school, said Molly. Organic doesn t always mean healthy, but it means the food was grown without dirty water, and unnecessary chemical fertilisers. Their Caesar salad is the most sought after by their clients. We use kale in the salad, which is a leafy green super-food that has gained popularity in the health-conscious circles, she added. The chicken salad costs Rwf6,500 ($8) while smoothies cost Rwf2,000 ($2.5). If you fret about what you eat in your quest for a healthy lifestyle, you are not alone. This year I resolved to eat healthy, so I sought the help of Molly Parker, the owner of Turambe Shoppe. She is a registered dietician living in Kigali.Located in Kacyiru, just behind the entrance to the US embassy, Turambe is the perfect place for anyone looking for healthy meal. A wooden board that says Turambe Shoppe est. 2016 directs you to the eatery.Turambe, which means live long in Kinyarwanda, was started when Molly couldn t find a job in Kigali. Her husband was already working in Rwanda.She saw an opportunity to teach nutrition, and to make healthy, affordable salads.An Eat Well sign at the bar inside adds to the d cor that creates an organic atmosphere while you order your meal out of the fridge. Molly also holds classes and open days to teach how to maintain a healthy lifestyle by watching what we eat. We hold classes to help people come up with a healthy meal plan. The class takes four hours at a cost of Rwf15,000 ($18) consultations included, said Molly.The classes include a weight management workshop. My dream is not to have people flock here, although it would be good for business. All I want is for people to cook healthy food for themselves, she added.The eatery caters for special dietary requirements such as gluten intolerance, vegan, and paleo. We get organic food from two delivery companies Fresh Basket Delivery, which is online, and a private farm that also helps vulnerable children to pay for school, said Molly. Organic doesn t always mean healthy, but it means the food was grown without dirty water, and unnecessary chemical fertilisers. Their Caesar salad is the most sought after by their clients. We use kale in the salad, which is a leafy green super-food that has gained popularity in the health-conscious circles, she added.The chicken salad costs Rwf6,500 ($8) while smoothies cost Rwf2,000 ($2.5).