After successfully preventing former Gambian president Yahya Jammeh from clinging to power despite his electoral defeat, the African Union Heads of State Summit in Addis Ababa should maintain the momentum. While the summit will be dominated by campaigns and lobbying ahead of the election of the AU Chair to replace the outgoing Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, African leaders should not forget the more pressing issues affecting the continent. Top on the list of such issues is how the continent can help South Sudan revive the August 2015 peace agreement, which has collapsed as the civil war spreads to other regions that had remained peaceful since it broke out in 2013. The United Nations Security Council last August resolved to send a 4,000-strong Regional Protection Force to protect civilians and secure humanitarian assistance, but no regional country has volunteered to donate troops except Ethiopia and Rwanda. Moreover, the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) is at a crossroads. African leaders must address alternative sources of funding after the European Union reduced its $200 million annual funding by 20 per cent. Besides insufficient funding, Amisom is suffering from inadequate troop levels and equipment. These challenges have emboldened militia group Al Shabaab, which has increased its attacks in the past few months in Mogadishu and against Amisom bases. Somalia will be going for presidential elections early next month and the African Union must ensure that Al Shabaab does not carry out its threat to disrupt the elections. Burundi is not yet out of the woods as the East African Community-led mediation is faltering in the face of the Nkurunziza government s unwillingness to negotiate with the main opposition. Burundi s neighbour, the Democratic of Congo is also facing a major political and humanitarian crisis following President Joseph Kabila s failure to hold elections and leave by December last year. Unfortunately, the AU has virtually left a potentially explosive situation in the hands of the Catholic Church to negotiate a political compromise. However, it is commendable that the summit will get down to discuss mechanisms for making the AU self-sufficient in funding. Rwanda s President, Paul Kagame is to table a report on a new financing model that should reduce donor-dependency. The Kigali summit in July had settled on a 0.2 per cent levy on imports to African countries in the hope that it would enable the AU to fund 75 per cent of its programmes 65 per cent of which are currently funded by donors. This goes hand-in-hand with the establishment of a Peace Fund for AU peacekeeping operations. Other key issues include the mechanisms for eliminating non-trade barriers among African countries to foster intra-African trade as the AU plans to launch the Continental Free Trade Area. The leaders will also discuss a report on the implementation of the principle of gender parity at national and regional levels. After successfully preventing former Gambian president Yahya Jammeh from clinging to power despite his electoral defeat, the African Union Heads of State Summit in Addis Ababa should maintain the momentum. While the summit will be dominated by campaigns and lobbying ahead of the election of the AU Chair to replace the outgoing Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, African leaders should not forget the more pressing issues affecting the continent.Top on the list of such issues is how the continent can help South Sudan revive the August 2015 peace agreement, which has collapsed as the civil war spreads to other regions that had remained peaceful since it broke out in 2013.The United Nations Security Council last August resolved to send a 4,000-strong Regional Protection Force to protect civilians and secure humanitarian assistance, but no regional country has volunteered to donate troops except Ethiopia and Rwanda.Moreover, the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) is at a crossroads. African leaders must address alternative sources of funding after the European Union reduced its $200 million annual funding by 20 per cent. Besides insufficient funding, Amisom is suffering from inadequate troop levels and equipment.These challenges have emboldened militia group Al Shabaab, which has increased its attacks in the past few months in Mogadishu and against Amisom bases.Somalia will be going for presidential elections early next month and the African Union must ensure that Al Shabaab does not carry out its threat to disrupt the elections.Burundi is not yet out of the woods as the East African Community-led mediation is faltering in the face of the Nkurunziza government s unwillingness to negotiate with the main opposition. Burundi s neighbour, the Democratic of Congo is also facing a major political and humanitarian crisis following President Joseph Kabila s failure to hold elections and leave by December last year. Unfortunately, the AU has virtually left a potentially explosive situation in the hands of the Catholic Church to negotiate a political compromise.However, it is commendable that the summit will get down to discuss mechanisms for making the AU self-sufficient in funding. Rwanda s President, Paul Kagame is to table a report on a new financing model that should reduce donor-dependency.The Kigali summit in July had settled on a 0.2 per cent levy on imports to African countries in the hope that it would enable the AU to fund 75 per cent of its programmes 65 per cent of which are currently funded by donors. This goes hand-in-hand with the establishment of a Peace Fund for AU peacekeeping operations.Other key issues include the mechanisms for eliminating non-trade barriers among African countries to foster intra-African trade as the AU plans to launch the Continental Free Trade Area. The leaders will also discuss a report on the implementation of the principle of gender parity at national and regional levels.