Ever since Gambia strongman Yahya Jammeh, was forced to hand over power last week and go into exile in Equatorial Guinea, a lot of discussion has focused on how serious the West African regional bloc Ecowas is, compared with others in Africa. After losing the election in December, it seems Jammeh, who had grabbed power in a coup 22 years earlier, became confused. He conceded defeat to opposition candidate, now president, Adama Barrow. A week later, he had recovered, so he did a U-turn, and disputed the outcome, saying he wouldn t leave. The elders of Ecowas tried to talk nicely to him, telling him things like that don t happen in West Africa. After fruitless negotiations, Ecowas gave Jammeh a deadline of midday January 19; Barrow was sworn in as president in the Gambian embassy in Senegal; and Ecowas dispatched troops. All Jammeh s claims to popularity collapsed, with civilians welcoming the Ecowas troops, and his own loyal army not putting up resistance, and reportedly joining them. Army chief Ousman Badje, who was famous for wearing Jammeh badges and being his cheerleader, chose to dance with opposition supporters on the streets of the capital Banjul as the regional troops closed in. Needless to say, he wasn t wearing a Jammeh badge. Jammeh did some good work the usual: Roads, schools, and all. However, his excesses blurred his achievements. But as Ecowas troops held the sword over his head, and he had last-ditch talks about his exit with regional leaders, Jammeh dramatically helped illustrate what power is about in most of Africa. As the American hip hop musician Puff Daddy sang, It s all about the Benjamins. It seems in the last days, Jammeh was busy gathering up all the dollars he could lay his hands on in Gambia. He is known to have taken at least $11 million. Officials of the new government allege he looted $500 million. It s hard to believe, not because Jammeh couldn t have stolen it, but because tiny poor Gambia probably didn t have that amount in US dollars in the central bank vault. It also emerged that Jammeh negotiated that 13 of his luxury cars be flown to him in exile. News reports quoted diplomats saying these included Bentleys, Land Rovers, a red Mini Cooper, and Mercedes Benzes. And for immediate car company, on the Saturday when he flew out, he took two Rolls Royces and a Mercedes Benz with him. Jammeh s fleet of Rolls Royces have his name and myriad titles - His Excellency Sheikh Professor Alhaji Dr Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh monogrammed on the leather headrests. So for a large part of the time during the extensions Ecowas gave him, to give diplomacy a chance, it seems the discussions were not about amnesty for his officials (most had resigned and he had fired the rest any way), or iron clad amnesty for himself, and things like that. As far as I know, this is the first time an African strongman has negotiated cars as part of a political settlement. You hope that there are usually greater strategic and ideological goals than this behind our leaders fight to stay in power forever. Jammeh has finally disabused us of any remaining illusions. For quite a few African leaders, it really is about the luxury wheels and money. Charles Onyango-Obbo is publisher of data visualiser Africapaedia and Rogue Chiefs. Twitter@cobbo3 Ever since Gambia strongman Yahya Jammeh, was forced to hand over power last week and go into exile in Equatorial Guinea, a lot of discussion has focused on how serious the West African regional bloc Ecowas is, compared with others in Africa.After losing the election in December, it seems Jammeh, who had grabbed power in a coup 22 years earlier, became confused. He conceded defeat to opposition candidate, now president, Adama Barrow. A week later, he had recovered, so he did a U-turn, and disputed the outcome, saying he wouldn t leave.The elders of Ecowas tried to talk nicely to him, telling him things like that don t happen in West Africa. After fruitless negotiations, Ecowas gave Jammeh a deadline of midday January 19; Barrow was sworn in as president in the Gambian embassy in Senegal; and Ecowas dispatched troops.All Jammeh s claims to popularity collapsed, with civilians welcoming the Ecowas troops, and his own loyal army not putting up resistance, and reportedly joining them. Army chief Ousman Badje, who was famous for wearing Jammeh badges and being his cheerleader, chose to dance with opposition supporters on the streets of the capital Banjul as the regional troops closed in. Needless to say, he wasn t wearing a Jammeh badge.Jammeh did some good work the usual: Roads, schools, and all. However, his excesses blurred his achievements.But as Ecowas troops held the sword over his head, and he had last-ditch talks about his exit with regional leaders, Jammeh dramatically helped illustrate what power is about in most of Africa. As the American hip hop musician Puff Daddy sang, It s all about the Benjamins. It seems in the last days, Jammeh was busy gathering up all the dollars he could lay his hands on in Gambia. He is known to have taken at least $11 million.Officials of the new government allege he looted $500 million. It s hard to believe, not because Jammeh couldn t have stolen it, but because tiny poor Gambia probably didn t have that amount in US dollars in the central bank vault. It also emerged that Jammeh negotiated that 13 of his luxury cars be flown to him in exile. News reports quoted diplomats saying these included Bentleys, Land Rovers, a red Mini Cooper, and Mercedes Benzes.And for immediate car company, on the Saturday when he flew out, he took two Rolls Royces and a Mercedes Benz with him. Jammeh s fleet of Rolls Royces have his name and myriad titles - His Excellency Sheikh Professor Alhaji Dr Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh monogrammed on the leather headrests.So for a large part of the time during the extensions Ecowas gave him, to give diplomacy a chance, it seems the discussions were not about amnesty for his officials (most had resigned and he had fired the rest any way), or iron clad amnesty for himself, and things like that.As far as I know, this is the first time an African strongman has negotiated cars as part of a political settlement.You hope that there are usually greater strategic and ideological goals than this behind our leaders fight to stay in power forever. Jammeh has finally disabused us of any remaining illusions. For quite a few African leaders, it really is about the luxury wheels and money. Charles Onyango-Obbo is publisher of data visualiser Africapaedia and Rogue Chiefs. Twitter@cobbo3