Part One: How I escaped death in the Congo Part Two: How the media exposed East Africa's worst famine A Kenyan public figure who, in the 1980s, suffered terribly at the hands of the government of president Daniel arap Moi was the outspoken environmental campaigner, women’s rights champion and political activist Prof Wangari Maathai. When I first met Wangari, back in 1977, on World Environment Day (June 5), she was leading a colourful march by members of the National Council of Women through central Nairobi to plant trees in the Kamukunji grounds in the east of the city. This march, the first of many, would go down as the beginning of what later came to be known as the Green Belt Movement. I stayed in touch with Wangari, who was then still working as an associate professor in veterinary anatomy at the University of Nairobi. In 1982, she left the university to vie for the vacant parliamentary seat in her rural home of Nyeri, in Central Province. Her political ambitions were, however, thwarted when a Nairobi court, disqualified her from running. Then, when the university declined to reinstate her, she worked full time on expanding the reach of her environmental work with the NCWK, encouraging women’s groups countrywide to grow seedlings in nurseries and to rehabilitate degraded and impoverished land by planting trees. It was at this time that a Scandinavian television syndicate contacted me, wanting my help in identifying “off-beat, human-interest topics” that might be worth filming in Kenya. Without hesitation, I suggested the making of a short documentary about Wangari Maathai and her tree-planting crusade. The Scandinavian crew, headed by Halle Jorn Hanssen of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation, duly arrived, and together we went to see Wangari, before embarking with her on a tour of some of her tree nurseries projects. Wangari was always a joy to film. Her passion and commitment was contagious, and she was also very well spoken, humorous, and fun to be with. The Scandinavians were smitten with her from the onset. Green Belt Movement Hanssen went on, soon afterwards, to become an influential figure in Norway, as the director of information and communications with the Norwegian Development Assistance Agency (Norad), under the Norwegian Ministry of Development Co-operation. In this capacity, Hanssen was able, later in 1982, to engineer a partnership with the Norwegian Forestry Society (headed by Wilhelm Elsrud) under which the government of Norway would provide funding for Wangari’s fledgling environmental agency, by now known officially as the Green Belt Movement. With more funding from other donors, including the United Nations’ Voluntary Fund for Women, Wangari was able to expand the operations of the Green Belt Movement, hiring staff to oversee tree planting around the country, while paying out stipends to women and men in poor communities, for planting seedlings and establishing nurseries. At around this time, Wangari also found a modest headquarters for her movement — in the old wood-and-corrugated-iron shacks erected in early colonial days, between what is now Nairobi’s Central Police Station and the Globe Cinema Roundabout. Wangari was in the habit of asking me, often at impossibly short notice, to make short films about the work of the Green Belt Movement, which she could then use to illustrate talks and presentations that she had been asked to give at environment conferences and summit meetings around the world. I recall one of her film requests in particular. This was on the afternoon of July 15, 1985. The concluding conference of the United Nations’ Decade for Women (1976-1985), then taking place at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre in Nairobi, had just started, and Wangari was one of the keynote speakers. Cornered The conference was to go on for nearly two weeks (until July 27). I had been hired by the prestigious ABC TV news programme Nightline, anchored by Peter Jennings, to cover the event together with an ABC reporter and producer who had flown in from the US. Wangari’s address, scheduled for July 19, was to be the finale of the first week’s “formal” proceedings. Imagine my shock, then, when Wangari cornered me during the afternoon tea break on the opening day, and asked me to make a “little film,” as she called it — within four days — that she wanted to show immediately after her address! “Impossible,” I told her, “It simply cannot be done.” Even a short film, I went on to explain, involves a lot of work. “First, you have to research the material, and develop a script, and then you have to hunt for locations, shoot the film, edit the footage, compose and record a commentary, and score the music. Nobody can do all this in three days,” I pointed out, adding that in any case I was committed, being under contract to ABC TV to cover the conference. Now, if there was one word that Wangari did not like, and never used herself, it was the word “impossible.” “Please, please, Mohinder,” she implored, “you have to help me. You must know of somebody who can make this film for me.” She then thrust a piece of paper into my hand. This turned out to be a handwritten list of scenes that she wanted to appear in the film. “You will find somebody, I know,” she said, as we were making our way back into the conference hall. “And who’s going to pay for your little film?” I asked, as we were parting. “I cannot give you anything right now by way of a down payment,” she replied, clasping and gently squeezing my hand, “but I will find the money eventually. That I promise you.” This was a done deal, as far as Wangari was concerned. And so, not for the first time, I was left wondering how to go about trying to work a miracle for her. The only soul I could think of who might be persuaded to take on such a crazy task was my young friend Sharad Shankardass. Sharad had worked with me at Africapix, but since then he had been holding down a boring civil service job, while preparing to leave for the US to complete his PhD in communications studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). And so, as soon as the conference was over for the day, I phoned Sharad, and I told him of the pickle I was in, regarding Wangari’s film. Sharad gallantly agreed when I spoke to him at greater length in the evening, to “drop everything” in order to make the documentary. If it succeeds, the experience, he felt, would stand him in good stead at MIT. So, early the next morning, after advising his office that a crisis had arisen, obliging him to take a few days of “emergency” leave, Sharad set about this unenviable task. And for the next three days, he worked day and night on Wangari’s film. By day, he shot footage of Green Belt Movement tree-nurseries around the city — at the Karura Forest, among other places — and of organised tree-planting groups at work in deforested, degraded landscapes a little further afield. With the help of other members of my Africapix staff, he recorded interviews with women’s groups and community leaders, and even an interview with the great Wangari herself, over the lunch-hour on day three of the conference. Then, working through the night, Sharad edited the footage, and devised a commentary, which he recorded and incorporated, using a hired voice artist, while adding a passable musical score, purchased in haste from a canned music library.   In the end, Naked Earth was shown, not as part of Wangari’s afternoon address, but in the evening instead, at a specially arranged VIP screening and launch presided over by Dr Mostafa Tolba, the renowned Egyptian scientist who, since 1975, had been executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme (Unep). Dr Tolba praised the film, which received a standing ovation from the invited guests. Naked Earth tours What is more, Wangari did make sure, a few weeks after the conference, that Africapix was paid in full for the making of the documentary. Somehow, through the African Development Fund, she managed to raise the money. The UN Decade for Women Conference turned Wangari and her Green Belt Movement into global icons. Her Naked Earth tours of seedling nurseries and tree planting activities in different parts of Kenya during the meeting’s second week were the most talked-about of all the informal events laid on for delegates. The result was a massive influx of funding, which enabled the Green Belt Movement to expand its reach throughout Africa, leading to the founding in 1986 of a Pan-African Green Belt Network. Come 1987, the Network was represented in no fewer than 15 other African countries, all of which were sending staff to Kenya to learn how to replicate Wangari’s success in combating deforestation, desertification and water insecurity. Wangari received prestigious international awards but her rise to prominence did not please the Moi government in Kenya, which proceeded to place one obstacle after another in her way. First, the government demanded that she dissociate herself from the NCWK (of which she was then chairwoman), on the grounds that her environmental activities were “incompatible” with those of a national women’s organisation. Then, to prevent her Green Belt Movement from holding meetings, a colonial-era by-law was invoked, prohibiting any group of more than nine people from assembling without first obtaining a government licence. In consequence, Wangari’s work took on an increasingly strident political dimension. And the planting of trees became a powerful symbol in Kenya of defiance of Moi’s corrupt and brutal regime — while serving as a platform for protest in the country by citizens calling for democracy and for the recognition of basic human rights, including freedom of expression. Standoff The standoff between Wangari and the government came to a head in October 1989, when the former — after learning that Moi had authorised the construction, in Uhuru Park, Nairobi’s most cherished public green space, of a 60-storey skyscraper, the Kenya Times Media Trust Complex — embarked on a passionate campaign to stop the proposed development. Backed by the London-based media tycoon Robert Maxwell, the colossal edifice was to house a new headquarters for Moi’s ruling Kanu party, a trading centre, conference halls, galleries, offices and shops, as well as the headquarters of The Kenya Times, the government-owned newspaper. There was to be a massive, 15-foot statue of Moi outside, along with parking space for 2,000 cars. Wangari lodged formal letters of protest with the Office of the President and with all the government ministries and urban and environmental management authorities that ought to have been consulted, urging them to scrap the plan. When this failed, she waged her battle through the courts and in the national media, attracting a huge following in the streets as well. Then, broadening her campaign, she lobbied international organisations, including the United Nations and its agencies, Unep and Unesco. And she lobbied foreign governments, imploring the then-British High Commissioner to Kenya, Sir John Johnson, for example, to step in and to pressurise Robert Maxwell into abandoning the project. Harassment For her trouble, Wangari was vilified by the Moi government, which branded her a “crazy woman” bent on undermining national prestige. The Green Belt Movement, for its part, after being dismissed as “a bogus organisation” consisting of “a bunch of misguided divorcees,” was hounded from its offices. The ground-breaking ceremony for the Kenya Times Media Trust Complex went ahead on November 15, 1989, despite the swelling tide of public protest on the streets. On December 11, the Kenyan High Court injunction sought by Wangari to halt the construction was thrown out. President Moi himself then weighed in, declaring that all those who opposed the project “must have insects in their heads.” And then, at the following afternoon’s Independence Day anniversary celebration at Uhuru Park, Moi publicly advised Maathai to “behave, in keeping with tradition, like a proper African woman, who respects the will of men and who remains quiet.” And yet, in spite of all this, Wangari’s persistent campaign, and the barrage of media coverage arising from it, and from her persecution by the Moi government, finally won the day. The Maxwell consortium of foreign investors backed off, cancelling the project in January 11, 1990. In the end, then, thanks to Wangari, the rape of Uhuru Park, the most iconic expanse of public green space in urban Kenya, was averted. Wangari Maathai went on, in the 1990s, to suffer further harassment and persecution at the hands of the Moi government. But her victory, in standing up to Moi and stopping the construction of the Kenya Times Media Trust Complex, would go down as a milestone in Kenya’s political development, marking the beginning of the end for tyrannical one-party rule in the country. Wangari was then, and remains today, one of my great heroines of the freedom struggle in Africa. Much later, in 2004, on learning that she had been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for her “contribution to sustainable development, democracy and peace,” I was delighted for her, not least because it had always saddened me that in Kenya, Wangari (who sadly died in 2011, aged 71, of complications arising from ovarian cancer) was never accorded anything like the recognition she so clearly deserved. Today, I look back proudly on having been lucky enough, in a small way, to have been able to assist Wangari at two important junctures along the way — first, with the making in 1982 of the Scandinavian television documentary with Halle Jorn Hanssen, which proved so instrumental in raising “seed-funding” for the Green Belt Movement, and then with the making of the Naked Earth documentary, which at the 1985 UN Decade for Women Conference in Nairobi helped to propel the Green Belt Movement into the global limelight. I wish only that I had done more. Part One:How I escaped death in the Congo Part Two: How the media exposed East Africa's worst famine   This first instalment of a three-part series from Sir Mohinder Dhillon’s trilogy, My Camera, My Life, reflects on the region’s past and present. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.