Sonarwa, the country s oldest but troubled insurance company, is about to change ownership with reports that the Rwanda Social Security Board (RSSB) has increased its holding in the company to assume the majority position. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a source familiar with the goings on said RSSB was in the final stages of acquiring majority stake in the company, beating off a competing bid by BK Insurance an offshoot of the Bank of Kigali. I am not the one directly involved in the process, Sonarwa dealt directly with RSSB. But what I can tell you is that RSSB has bought majority stake in Sonarwa; they have bought off IGI Plc, the source said. The changes come at the height of a crisis that saw some service providers reject clients with Sonarwa policies over unsettled claims. Deputy Director General in charge of fund management at RSSB John Bosco Sebabi confirmed they were working on a rescue plan for the insurer, but could not divulge details. We are working on a rescue plan. We might or might not be in the majority. Everything will be clear once the deal is finalised. We shall then call you with the details, he said. Capital calls The company has recently come under scrutiny over financial mismanagement, unpaid claims and multiple law suits. The company was also facing a growing crisis of confidence with some clients reporting holding paper policies that were not traceable in the computer system. I don t have facts but I have heard that RSSB first wanted to conduct due diligence before making a definitive move. Bank of Kigali was interested as well, but talk to the regulator for more details, said Jean Paul Majoro, the executive secretary for the Association of Insurance Companies in Rwanda (ASSAR). IGI Plc, a Nigerian insurance company, became the majority shareholder when it acquired a 35 per cent stake in the company in 2008. At 16 per cent of the stock, RSSB held the second largest block of shares with the remaining 49 per cent split among by eight companies. Subsequent capital calls saw the capital base grow in excess of Rwf3.5 billion and assets worth more than Rwf14 billion, making Sonarwa GI. the biggest and the most capitalised insurance company in Rwanda. The most recent scandal coming out of Sonarwa involved the company s former managing director Mawadza Nhomo, and board chairman Charles Mutsinzi Karake, who were arrested for allegedly authorising illegal financial transactions to the tune of Rwf191 million. The two were accused alongside four others: Hubert Rumanyika, Stevenson Nzaramba, Gerard Mbabazi and Barnabas Rutagwabira. READ: Court to hear Sonarwa case on loss of Rwf191m in January Information from the prosecution at the time of the arrests indicated that the accused got involved in a dubious tendering process to give insurance cover to a fleet of cars belonging to the Ministry of Infrastructure, yet by virtue of Mininfra being a public entity, no commission was supposed to be paid on the transaction. Sonarwa, the country s oldest but troubled insurance company, is about to change ownership with reports that the Rwanda Social Security Board (RSSB) has increased its holding in the company to assume the majority position.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a source familiar with the goings on said RSSB was in the final stages of acquiring majority stake in the company, beating off a competing bid by BK Insurance an offshoot of the Bank of Kigali. I am not the one directly involved in the process, Sonarwa dealt directly with RSSB. But what I can tell you is that RSSB has bought majority stake in Sonarwa; they have bought off IGI Plc, the source said.The changes come at the height of a crisis that saw some service providers reject clients with Sonarwa policies over unsettled claims.Deputy Director General in charge of fund management at RSSB John Bosco Sebabi confirmed they were working on a rescue plan for the insurer, but could not divulge details. We are working on a rescue plan. We might or might not be in the majority. Everything will be clear once the deal is finalised. We shall then call you with the details, he said.Capital callsThe company has recently come under scrutiny over financial mismanagement, unpaid claims and multiple law suits. The company was also facing a growing crisis of confidence with some clients reporting holding paper policies that were not traceable in the computer system. I don t have facts but I have heard that RSSB first wanted to conduct due diligence before making a definitive move. Bank of Kigali was interested as well, but talk to the regulator for more details, said Jean Paul Majoro, the executive secretary for the Association of Insurance Companies in Rwanda (ASSAR).IGI Plc, a Nigerian insurance company, became the majority shareholder when it acquired a 35 per cent stake in the company in 2008. At 16 per cent of the stock, RSSB held the second largest block of shares with the remaining 49 per cent split among by eight companies.Subsequent capital calls saw the capital base grow in excess of Rwf3.5 billion and assets worth more than Rwf14 billion, making Sonarwa GI. the biggest and the most capitalised insurance company in Rwanda.The most recent scandal coming out of Sonarwa involved the company s former managing director Mawadza Nhomo, and board chairman Charles Mutsinzi Karake, who were arrested for allegedly authorising illegal financial transactions to the tune of Rwf191 million.The two were accused alongside four others: Hubert Rumanyika, Stevenson Nzaramba, Gerard Mbabazi and Barnabas Rutagwabira.READ: Court to hear Sonarwa case on loss of Rwf191m in JanuaryInformation from the prosecution at the time of the arrests indicated that the accused got involved in a dubious tendering process to give insurance cover to a fleet of cars belonging to the Ministry of Infrastructure, yet by virtue of Mininfra being a public entity, no commission was supposed to be paid on the transaction.