For Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, the end of the year came with closure to one of the most mixed 12 months of his more than three-decade rule. Now going into 2017, a critical audit of the past year of President Museveni’s reign could shape the narrative on whether he achieves his much acclaimed kisanja hakuna mchezo (no nonsense term), or if the status quo will prevail. Senior presidential press secretary Don Wanyama described 2016 as a year of “rejuvenation where the president won a new mandate built on the fact that the country has been registering steady progress in the economic, social and political spheres.” Mr Wanyama said in order to keep a steady pace in 2017, President Museveni would continue with his approach of holding discussions with individual sectors on what needs to be done to drive the country to the goal of attaining lower middle income status by 2020. The past year was tumultuous, and the effects are likely to linger or even escalate in 2017 across the political, economic and social spheres. Political front The political battle lines, observers and critics in Kampala note, are likely to keep President Museveni and his nemesis of the past 20 years, Kizza Besigye, as the dominant players. Although President Museveni defeated Dr Besigye and five other contestants in the February 18, 2016 elections, the poll was termed as the most controversial and discredited in Uganda to date. Since taking the oath of office for a fifth straight term on May 12, President Museveni and his ruling party have spent the past seven months asserting their victory in a laboured fashion. The election was conducted under protest from the opposition over the failure to carry out electoral reforms, a process the Museveni government remains reluctant to push through. To observers, President Museveni has already launched his campaign for 2021 through his Operation Wealth Creation tours that started in late 2016. As if reading from the same script, the opposition Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) of Dr Besigye also announced it would move across the country to reactivate its structures, and to assert itself as the alternative to solve problems faced by Ugandans. A case in point was in November; as the government dithered over how to respond to the famine in 44 districts in the country, Dr Besigye and FDC delivered two tonnes of emergency food aid to starving people in Isingiro district, the epicentre of the food crisis triggered by a long drought. “Uganda, which gets enough rainfall, should not be facing a food crisis. Water should have been harvested for irrigation,” Dr Besigye told residents of Isingiro, adding that instead of using modern methods of harvesting water for irrigation, President Museveni and his government were out of touch with the present and still applying Stone Age methods to fight drought. Dr Besigye will probably use such opportunities in 2017 to further discredit the Museveni regime. Devastating drought President Museveni and the NRM pledged that his fifth term would focus on the fight against poverty and corruption, but events in 2016 suggest a tough and rugged road ahead. When drought devastated the economy and drove some 1.3 million people to starvation, a government intervention to supply relief food, led by Prime Minister Ruhakana Rugunda, was too little too late. The crisis helped to highlight a major challenge that despite all the talk of agricultural transformation and billions of shillings being poured into poorly managed schemes to transform agriculture — the country’s mainstay employing some 68 per cent of the population — remains at the mercy of nature. The president attracted much public mockery, especially on social media, after his media team circulated pictures of his tour to Luwero district — celebrated by the NRM as the home of the revolution that brought him to power in 1986 — showing him pushing a yellow jerrican on a bicycle to demonstrate simple irrigation techniques. Images of starving families in Isingiro, once the country’s biggest producer of the critical staple matooke, served to ridicule a government clueless on how to promote and modernise agriculture. READ: In western Uganda, many families are facing starvation Morrison Rwakakamba, who heads a new outfit tasked with collecting data on government successes and failures to push a fact-based fight against critics, lists the famine as a major drawback of 2016. Indeed, if such incidents present themselves in 2017 and the FDC capitalises on the government’s failure to respond, they could shape how the next presidential battle plays out. Changing the Constitution A critical constitutional matter directly impacts President Museveni’s future after 2021: According to the current Constitution, the incumbent will be ineligible to contest again. However, a surprise Bill and petitions from other movement chairpersons and party leaders from the district of Kyankwanzi shortly after President Museveni took his oath, pushing for an amendment of the Constitution to remove Article 102 (b) on age limits, has left little doubt that he wants to stay on. Observers say 2017 will be the year when any moves on the Constitution and particularly President Museveni’s desire to hang on beyond 2021 will become clear. Land dispute Economists warn that effects of the long drought are likely to linger into 2017. A contest between various government agencies over the expansion of agricultural lands by destroying fragile ecosystems, specifically for multinationals wanting to grow sugarcane in Bugoma forest reserve in Masindi district and Zoka forest in West Nile, only added to the bag of contradictions that the government faces in its kisanja hakuna mchezo. Makerere University reopened on Tuesday after two months of closure following a strike by lecturers over unpaid allowances. The strike was a major slap in the face of First Lady Janet Museveni, who was appointed to head the Ministry of Education in June. It took the intervention of President Museveni to order the institution closed after negotiations involving the minister and the lecturers failed. Former Member of Parliament John Lukyamunzi termed the closure of Makerere University as evidence of “incompetent management of the education sector” and the entire country generally, a failure by President Museveni who chose his wife to manage a critical sector. Mr Lukyamuzi was speaking to journalists at an event organised by the African Centre for Media Excellence in December. Mass killing But the highlight of the year, critics and supporters agree, was the mass killing of royal guards of the cultural leader of Rwenzururu, Charles Wesley Mumbere, by a combined force of police and the military on November 27. It was a low moment for President Museveni, an indelible blemish on his career. READ: How 2011 elections set stage for deadly clashes in Kasese Don Wanyama calls it an “unfortunate incident.” Mr Rwakakamba lists the “confrontation between the Obusinga Bwa Rwenzururu and law enforcement leading to the death of over 60 civilians and 14 security personnel,” top of a list of eight “downsides and drawbacks of 2016.” The attack, happening exactly 50 years after a similar raid by the government of president Milton Obote on the Buganda Kingdom in 1966, drew parallels between President Museveni and his predecessors, whom he has derided on several occasions. At 72 and still wishing to hang on to power, President Museveni would have hoped to quit at a less chaotic time and focus on legacy projects, but reality has conspired differently.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.