Kenya and Rwanda have banned importation of live birds and poultry products from Uganda after a confirmed outbreak of Bird Flu on Sunday evening. Kenya's Chief Veterinary Officer Juma Ngeiywa said all public health and veterinary officers at Busia and Malaba border posts had been placed on high alert to ensure no imports of poultry products are allowed in until the situation in Entebbe has normalised. Permits issued to chicks, eggs, poultry meat and breeding chicken importers will have to be reviewed to safeguard spread of Bird Flu to Kenya, Dr Ngeiya said. Similarly, Rwanda's Agriculture minister Dr Geraldine Mukeshimana said importation of chicken and all poultry products (eggs and meat) from Uganda and countries in Europe where Bird Flu has been detected has been temporarily suspended. European countries affected by the ban include Hungary, Germany, The Netherlands and Denmark. Avian Flu The alerts follow a Uganda government announcement that the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), which infects both animals and humans, had been detected after tests on carcasses of white winged-black tern birds that died on the shores of Lake Victoria near Entebbe at Lutembe beach on January 2. A second incident was confirmed on January 13 at Bukakata area within Masaka district, 75 kilometres from Kampala City, when carcasses of five domestic ducks and a hen tested positive to HPAI prompting re-activation of the National Task Force to co-ordinate the fight against Avian Flu. READ: Uganda detects bird flu in wild, domestic birds Acting General Health Services Director in Uganda Anthony Mbonye, however, allayed fears of people contracting the Avian Flu, saying the probability of bird-to-human infection was low. Any infected person will show influenza-like symptoms-coughs, muscle-aches, headaches and diarrhoea. It can be mild, but also very lethal as it attacks the lungs and the kidneys, he said. Uganda s Agriculture, Industry and Fisheries minister Christopher Kibazanga confirmed the outbreak, saying measures had been taken to avert any further spread of the disease. Migratory birds The Avian Flu could have been brought to Uganda by white winged black terns (migratory birds) that fly in from Europe during winter to breeding grounds on the shores of Lake Victoria. Rwanda has also called its wildlife officers to be on high alert and closely monitor the situation. Kenya and Rwanda have banned importation of live birds and poultry products from Uganda after a confirmed outbreak of Bird Flu on Sunday evening.Kenya's Chief Veterinary Officer Juma Ngeiywa said all public health and veterinary officers at Busia and Malaba border posts had been placed on high alert to ensure no imports of poultry products are allowed in until the situation in Entebbe has normalised. Permits issued to chicks, eggs, poultry meat and breeding chicken importers will have to be reviewed to safeguard spread of Bird Flu to Kenya, Dr Ngeiya said.Similarly, Rwanda's Agriculture minister Dr Geraldine Mukeshimana said importation of chicken and all poultry products (eggs and meat) from Uganda and countries in Europe where Bird Flu has been detected has been temporarily suspended. European countries affected by the ban include Hungary, Germany, The Netherlands and Denmark.Avian FluThe alerts follow a Uganda government announcement that the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), which infects both animals and humans, had been detected after tests on carcasses of white winged-black tern birds that died on the shores of Lake Victoria near Entebbe at Lutembe beach on January 2.A second incident was confirmed on January 13 at Bukakata area within Masaka district, 75 kilometres from Kampala City, when carcasses of five domestic ducks and a hen tested positive to HPAI prompting re-activation of the National Task Force to co-ordinate the fight against Avian Flu.READ: Uganda detects bird flu in wild, domestic birdsActing General Health Services Director in Uganda Anthony Mbonye, however, allayed fears of people contracting the Avian Flu, saying the probability of bird-to-human infection was low. Any infected person will show influenza-like symptoms-coughs, muscle-aches, headaches and diarrhoea. It can be mild, but also very lethal as it attacks the lungs and the kidneys, he said.Uganda s Agriculture, Industry and Fisheries minister Christopher Kibazanga confirmed the outbreak, saying measures had been taken to avert any further spread of the disease.Migratory birdsThe Avian Flu could have been brought to Uganda by white winged black terns (migratory birds) that fly in from Europe during winter to breeding grounds on the shores of Lake Victoria.Rwanda has also called its wildlife officers to be on high alert and closely monitor the situation.