Mary Fanaro was not much of a music person when she visited Rwanda for a gorilla trek. My guide and driver was a keyboard player in his church. He asking if I would do a music school. I was hesitant since music was not something I had ever ventured into, she said. Unknown to her, this would not be the case by the time her trip came to an end. Ms Fanaro would later move mountains, literally, to create a music school in Kigali. This came to pass, thanks to a stay at a place overlooking the Virunga Mountains. And Rwanda Rocks, a school that teaches needy but gifted children music, was born. That is just part of the story, which has Ms Fanaro as a crucial character. Through her guide, Ms Fanaro met Eric Kabera, the founder of Kwetu Films and the rest, as they say, is history. As things began to fall into place Ms Fanaro, who had gone back to the US, had to fly to Rwanda. People came out of all manner of places to help after I sent out emails for funding, she said. Ms Fanaro, an actress based in the US through her company OmniPeace Foundation, used her connections and over time had the school running. We have Gibson Foundation, Roland, and DW Drums who shipped instruments through Rocket Cargo, said Ms Fanaro. Accompanying her was Harold Owens, senior director of MusiCares Foundation the charity arm of the Grammy foundation, who helped in raising funds for the Roland equipment. The school offers free music lessons to underprivileged students from the Meg Foundation foster home for children living with HIV based in Rwanda. It is common to see schoolchildren who attend public schools going for music. To Mary Fanaro, seeing the children enjoy the music for the first time was thrilling, I talked with the owner of Meg Foundation [eponymously named after her] and she told me some of those children rarely smile but when it comes to the music class, they are excited. Mary Fanaro was not much of a music person when she visited Rwanda for a gorilla trek. My guide and driver was a keyboard player in his church. He asking if I would do a music school. I was hesitant since music was not something I had ever ventured into, she said.Unknown to her, this would not be the case by the time her trip came to an end. Ms Fanaro would later move mountains, literally, to create a music school in Kigali.This came to pass, thanks to a stay at a place overlooking the Virunga Mountains. And Rwanda Rocks, a school that teaches needy but gifted children music, was born.That is just part of the story, which has Ms Fanaro as a crucial character.Through her guide, Ms Fanaro met Eric Kabera, the founder of Kwetu Films and the rest, as they say, is history.As things began to fall into place Ms Fanaro, who had gone back to the US, had to fly to Rwanda. People came out of all manner of places to help after I sent out emails for funding, she said.Ms Fanaro, an actress based in the US through her company OmniPeace Foundation, used her connections and over time had the school running. We have Gibson Foundation, Roland, and DW Drums who shipped instruments through Rocket Cargo, said Ms Fanaro.Accompanying her was Harold Owens, senior director of MusiCares Foundation the charity arm of the Grammy foundation, who helped in raising funds for the Roland equipment. The school offers free music lessons to underprivileged students from the Meg Foundation foster home for children living with HIV based in Rwanda.It is common to see schoolchildren who attend public schools going for music.To Mary Fanaro, seeing the children enjoy the music for the first time was thrilling, I talked with the owner of Meg Foundation [eponymously named after her] and she told me some of those children rarely smile but when it comes to the music class, they are excited. 