Joseph Opio has always been serious about comedy. So serious, in fact, that he walked away from a promising newspaper job in Kampala, borrowed a large sum of money, and went to the US to try to make people laugh. Some people end up in comedy the way a drunkard stumbles into a previously unknown tavern on his way home. Others linger in comedy, waiting for an opportunity to move on to acting or a proper job. For Opio, comedy was the journey and the destination. We meet in a small busy restaurant in mid-town Manhattan, (in the state of New York) after a live recording of Comedy Central s The Daily Show with Trevor Noah. (Noah, a South African, took over from Jon Stewart who retired from the show after a decade). Opio s fortunes are closely hitched to the South Africa-born comedian s wagon but he has laced his bootstraps himself. He was one of the best A-level students in Uganda and, after reading for a law degree, landed a job with a major audit firm in Kampala. But the life of stuffy suits did not sound appealing; moreover, he d been drawn to comedy in his early teens when he watched Bernie Mac and The Original Kings of Comedy. He dabbled in sports journalism at the New Vision newspaper in Kampala where he landed a sub-editing job at 17 while still a student, but the newspaper world, away from the sports pages, was full of grim news stories. Instead of complaining, I decided to vent using comedy, says Opio. The result was a comedy show, LOL Uganda, on Urban TV, a small station in Kampala. Opio wrote, edited, directed, produced and presented the show. Not enough Although only in his 20s and despite the show being only mildly popular on a small, start-up station, Opio quickly became, he says, the highest-paid television presenter in the country. But it wasn t enough. Most people want to be the biggest fish in a small pond, he says, and the problem with [many] Ugandans is thinking small. Opio s first break came during a visit to South Africa to attend a reception for the comedy Late Night Show. He met the right people and made such an impression with his jokes during the chitchat that he was invited back to work on the South African comedy circuit. Within a month of moving to South Africa, he had become the first foreigner to win the Nando s Showdown, a stand-up comedy face-off in Johannesburg. Opio was tempted to put down roots and try to make a comedy career in Johannesburg but he learnt that the SA show he d written some jokes for on his earlier visit had been nominated for an international Emmy and its host, Trevor Noah, had moved to the US to try his luck on a bigger stage. Never short of confidence, Opio returned to Uganda, worked on a screenplay, looked for money and applied for a US visa. Soon after, armed with a fistful of borrowed dollars and a suitcase of dreams, Opio landed in New York. In November 2014, Opio met Noah at the Comedy Cellar in New York, a popular venue for comedians trying to get into the business. Opio had had to cajole and beg a bouncer to let him in, and then cajoled some more to get a chance at the microphone. Joseph Opio has always been serious about comedy. So serious, in fact, that he walked away from a promising newspaper job in Kampala, borrowed a large sum of money, and went to the US to try to make people laugh.Some people end up in comedy the way a drunkard stumbles into a previously unknown tavern on his way home. Others linger in comedy, waiting for an opportunity to move on to acting or a proper job. For Opio, comedy was the journey and the destination. We meet in a small busy restaurant in mid-town Manhattan, (in the state of New York) after a live recording of Comedy Central s The Daily Show with Trevor Noah. (Noah, a South African, took over from Jon Stewart who retired from the show after a decade).Opio s fortunes are closely hitched to the South Africa-born comedian s wagon but he has laced his bootstraps himself. He was one of the best A-level students in Uganda and, after reading for a law degree, landed a job with a major audit firm in Kampala. But the life of stuffy suits did not sound appealing; moreover, he d been drawn to comedy in his early teens when he watched Bernie Mac and The Original Kings of Comedy.He dabbled in sports journalism at the New Vision newspaper in Kampala where he landed a sub-editing job at 17 while still a student, but the newspaper world, away from the sports pages, was full of grim news stories. Instead of complaining, I decided to vent using comedy, says Opio. The result was a comedy show, LOL Uganda, on Urban TV, a small station in Kampala. Opio wrote, edited, directed, produced and presented the show.Not enoughAlthough only in his 20s and despite the show being only mildly popular on a small, start-up station, Opio quickly became, he says, the highest-paid television presenter in the country.But it wasn t enough. Most people want to be the biggest fish in a small pond, he says, and the problem with [many] Ugandans is thinking small. Opio s first break came during a visit to South Africa to attend a reception for the comedy Late Night Show. He met the right people and made such an impression with his jokes during the chitchat that he was invited back to work on the South African comedy circuit. Within a month of moving to South Africa, he had become the first foreigner to win the Nando s Showdown, a stand-up comedy face-off in Johannesburg.Opio was tempted to put down roots and try to make a comedy career in Johannesburg but he learnt that the SA show he d written some jokes for on his earlier visit had been nominated for an international Emmy and its host, Trevor Noah, had moved to the US to try his luck on a bigger stage.Never short of confidence, Opio returned to Uganda, worked on a screenplay, looked for money and applied for a US visa. Soon after, armed with a fistful of borrowed dollars and a suitcase of dreams, Opio landed in New York.In November 2014, Opio met Noah at the Comedy Cellar in New York, a popular venue for comedians trying to get into the business. Opio had had to cajole and beg a bouncer to let him in, and then cajoled some more to get a chance at the microphone.