British explorer Tullow Oil has announced new crude find in Turkana in northern Kenya. Tullow said Tuesday it hit 25 metres of oil after drilling 25 metres of rock reservoir at Erut-1 well in the South Lokichar basin. The wildcat well (virgin exploration field) has no previous record of oil reserves. Overall oil column for the field is considered to be 100 to 125 metres, Tullow s exploration director Mr Angus McCoss said. This extends known hydrocarbon limits of the basin, said Mr McCoss, adding more drilling will be carried out in the underexplored northern part of the basin where we have several undrilled prospects. The latest find is set to increase the country s recoverable reserves from the current 750 million barrels. Kenya, whose first oil discovery was made in 2012, hopes to hit one billion barrels of recoverable crude. In its Early Oil Pilot Scheme, the country targets to start exportation in June with Tullow and its partners Africa Oil and Maersk intending to produce 2,000 barrels of oil per day. Tullow, however, did not disclose how many barrels of oil it struck at the Erut-1 well. British explorer Tullow Oil has announced new crude find in Turkana in northern Kenya.Tullow said Tuesday it hit 25 metres of oil after drilling 25 metres of rock reservoir at Erut-1 well in the South Lokichar basin. The wildcat well (virgin exploration field) has no previous record of oil reserves. Overall oil column for the field is considered to be 100 to 125 metres, Tullow s exploration director Mr Angus McCoss said. This extends known hydrocarbon limits of the basin, said Mr McCoss, adding more drilling will be carried out in the underexplored northern part of the basin where we have several undrilled prospects. The latest find is set to increase the country s recoverable reserves from the current 750 million barrels. Kenya, whose first oil discovery was made in 2012, hopes to hit one billion barrels of recoverable crude.In its Early Oil Pilot Scheme, the country targets to start exportation in June with Tullow and its partners Africa Oil and Maersk intending to produce 2,000 barrels of oil per day. Tullow, however, did not disclose how many barrels of oil it struck at the Erut-1 well.