Agriculture officials say they do not expect significant declines in season A 2017 maize production even as farmers decry crop loss due to lower rainfall volumes. According to Head of Crop Production and Food Security Department at the Rwanda Agriculture Board Dr Telesphore Ndabamenye, a variation in rainfall distribution and incidence of pest outbreaks are not expected to have a significant impact on output. We expect a good maize harvest, despite the change in weather patterns and cases of the stem borer, he said. He said the incidence of the stem borer pest was within normal range and below the critical threshold of 30 per cent of the crop. According to the Rwanda Meteorological Agency, the country was experiencing the neutral post El Ni o conditions, which are characterised by light rains. The neutral period started at the end of El Ni o in 2016 and is going to last the whole of this year, said Anthony Twahirwa, the Weather Services and Application Division manager within Meteo Rwanda. Twahirwa said while other parts of the country were experiencing dry conditions, the northern and southwestern were getting at least 5mm of precipitation. Now the government projects an increase in season A 2017 maize production to 780,000 tonnes, compared with 652,000 tonnes for the same period of last year. But, farmers have expressed doubts about the viability of that target in view of the rains and pests. Maize farmers in some parts of the country reported late arrival and shorter than normal duration of rains that affected the crop s growth. Farmers reported extensive withering during December. This was compounded by outbreaks of the stem borer. Our maize has been wrecked by both the early cessation of rains and pests, said Sylvestre Munyampara, who heads Urumuri rw abahinzi maize farmers co-operative based in Nyanza District. Rwanda farmers federation (Imbaraga) general secretary Joseph Gafaranga, said save for the farmers from Eastern who sowed with the early rains and those depending on irrigation, the rest will have a production loss ranging between 30 and 40 per cent in comparison with season A of 2016. Agriculture officials say they do not expect significant declines in season A 2017 maize production even as farmers decry crop loss due to lower rainfall volumes.According to Head of Crop Production and Food Security Department at the Rwanda Agriculture Board Dr Telesphore Ndabamenye, a variation in rainfall distribution and incidence of pest outbreaks are not expected to have a significant impact on output. We expect a good maize harvest, despite the change in weather patterns and cases of the stem borer, he said. He said the incidence of the stem borer pest was within normal range and below the critical threshold of 30 per cent of the crop. According to the Rwanda Meteorological Agency, the country was experiencing the neutral post El Ni o conditions, which are characterised by light rains. The neutral period started at the end of El Ni o in 2016 and is going to last the whole of this year, said Anthony Twahirwa, the Weather Services and Application Division manager within Meteo Rwanda. Twahirwa said while other parts of the country were experiencing dry conditions, the northern and southwestern were getting at least 5mm of precipitation.Now the government projects an increase in season A 2017 maize production to 780,000 tonnes, compared with 652,000 tonnes for the same period of last year. But, farmers have expressed doubts about the viability of that target in view of the rains and pests.Maize farmers in some parts of the country reported late arrival and shorter than normal duration of rains that affected the crop s growth. Farmers reported extensive withering during December. This was compounded by outbreaks of the stem borer. Our maize has been wrecked by both the early cessation of rains and pests, said Sylvestre Munyampara, who heads Urumuri rw abahinzi maize farmers co-operative based in Nyanza District.Rwanda farmers federation (Imbaraga) general secretary Joseph Gafaranga, said save for the farmers from Eastern who sowed with the early rains and those depending on irrigation, the rest will have a production loss ranging between 30 and 40 per cent in comparison with season A of 2016. 