First came fashion. Bold, ambitious and unafraid. It could not stay reserved for particular places. It was all over and in public. Then came the designers and their inspirations. For 25-year-old Moses Turahirwa, one of the few local designers steadily emerging, and gaining recognition for his outfits, the inspiration was Umwitero, an ancient wear. Turahirwa s has been a long journey that started off with him trying his hand in modelling from 2009. But it was not until 2014, at the fashion week, that he debuted as a fashion designer. His first collection was themed Summer Temptation, where he introduced Umwitero. I used to research, and was thirsty for something new, but appealing to Rwandans and Africans, he explained. Umwitero dates back as far as the 1920s. It was a robe complementing an attire, which was worn by mostly the noble class who included the Royal family and the chiefs in the Ubwami (kingdom). As one who can also draw, between 2013 and 2014, Turahirwa started out by sketching design outfits, which he presented to some tailors. His entry wasn t as easy since Umwitero was known, though as an ancient wear. Integrating it to contemporary outfit took innovation to persuade the public. Most clients need unique outfits, while others are inspired by what they have seen before. I have always taken the challenge of further persuading a client into integrating a unique twist into any outfit, he explained. With an initial investment of Rfw200,000 ($243), Turahirwa acquired a sewing machine and some fabrics. He also employed a tailor. Making mostly men s outfits jumpsuits, shirts, trousers, shorts and a few ladies outfits, he uses various fabrics depending on his themes, driven by inspirations, colour and even as commissioned by clients. Turahirwa uses leather, wool, cotton, silk and African kitenge among others. He doesn t limit himself but puts a unique signature to his works. For this unique concept into fashion, Turahirwa has gained recognition through showcasing at the Kigali Fashion Week from 2014 till 2016, and received nominations such as at the 2014, 2015 and 2016 Swahili Fashion week in Tanzania, and at Uganda s Abryans Fashion Awards in 2014, 2015 and 2016. He was also at the Men s Fashion Week in Nigeria, where he showcased in December 2016. Back home, Turahirwa s outfits have been adopted by some of the top musicians including Mani Martin, Jody Phibi, Urban Boys, Masamba Intore, who commission him in preparations for their performances and video shoots. He has designed wedding outfits and worked with most local designers and models through events, Ugandan designer Brian Ahumuza, a Ugandan-based Rwandan model Judith Heard, Namibian celebrity and former Big Brother Hotshots contestant Luis Munana among others. Depending on the designs and material, his outfits range from as low as Rfw25,000 ($30) to Rwf45,000($55) for men s outfits, while ladies outfits go between Rwf60,000 ($73) to Rwf80,000 ($97). First came fashion. Bold, ambitious and unafraid. It could not stay reserved for particular places. It was all over and in public.Then came the designers and their inspirations. For 25-year-old Moses Turahirwa, one of the few local designers steadily emerging, and gaining recognition for his outfits, the inspiration was Umwitero, an ancient wear.Turahirwa s has been a long journey that started off with him trying his hand in modelling from 2009. But it was not until 2014, at the fashion week, that he debuted as a fashion designer. His first collection was themed Summer Temptation, where he introduced Umwitero. I used to research, and was thirsty for something new, but appealing to Rwandans and Africans, he explained.Umwitero dates back as far as the 1920s. It was a robe complementing an attire, which was worn by mostly the noble class who included the Royal family and the chiefs in the Ubwami (kingdom).As one who can also draw, between 2013 and 2014, Turahirwa started out by sketching design outfits, which he presented to some tailors.His entry wasn t as easy since Umwitero was known, though as an ancient wear. Integrating it to contemporary outfit took innovation to persuade the public. Most clients need unique outfits, while others are inspired by what they have seen before. I have always taken the challenge of further persuading a client into integrating a unique twist into any outfit, he explained.With an initial investment of Rfw200,000 ($243), Turahirwa acquired a sewing machine and some fabrics. He also employed a tailor.Making mostly men s outfits jumpsuits, shirts, trousers, shorts and a few ladies outfits, he uses various fabrics depending on his themes, driven by inspirations, colour and even as commissioned by clients.Turahirwa uses leather, wool, cotton, silk and African kitenge among others. He doesn t limit himself but puts a unique signature to his works. For this unique concept into fashion, Turahirwa has gained recognition through showcasing at the Kigali Fashion Week from 2014 till 2016, and received nominations such as at the 2014, 2015 and 2016 Swahili Fashion week in Tanzania, and at Uganda s Abryans Fashion Awards in 2014, 2015 and 2016. He was also at the Men s Fashion Week in Nigeria, where he showcased in December 2016.Back home, Turahirwa s outfits have been adopted by some of the top musicians including Mani Martin, Jody Phibi, Urban Boys, Masamba Intore, who commission him in preparations for their performances and video shoots. He has designed wedding outfits and worked with most local designers and models through events, Ugandan designer Brian Ahumuza, a Ugandan-based Rwandan model Judith Heard, Namibian celebrity and former Big Brother Hotshots contestant Luis Munana among others.Depending on the designs and material, his outfits range from as low as Rfw25,000 ($30) to Rwf45,000($55) for men s outfits, while ladies outfits go between Rwf60,000 ($73) to Rwf80,000 ($97).