Joseph Opio, by Hollywood structure, is at the bottom of the pyramid when it comes to salary. As per the Writers Guild of America, the starting salary for a writer in late night show is $4,198 per week. But that is where almost everyone starts their journey to the top. Opio s boss, Trevor Noah, joined The Daily Show as a correspondent and writer, but his rise was meteoric as he took over from the incomparable Jon Stewart just weeks after he joined. According to Business Insider, at the time of his resignation, Stewart was US television s highest-paid late-night TV personality, earning between $25 million to $35 million a year. Noah s salary is yet to be made public, but many say that while he is nowhere near that ballpark, he is way past the million dollar mark. Some of his late night TV counterparts rake in millions. According to Forbes, Stephen Colbert of The Late Show and Jimmy Fallon of The Tonight Show take home $15 million each per year, followed by Conan O Brien of Conan at $12.5 million, and Jimmy Kimmel of Jimmy Kimmel Live who earns $12 million. But these are giants on US late night TV who bring in millions in advertising and eyeballs. It will not be surprising that Noah s salary could be lower as a newcomer, but he is coming up fast though he is struggling in the ratings. According to Comedy Central, despite a dip in ratings and a general sentiment that he s not as funny or essential as Jon Stewart, he is doing well with millennials. The truth is, our network is a business and our core audience are millennials, Comedy Central president Kent Alterman told The Daily News. And millennials are paying attention to us. In Africa, only South Africa and Nigeria stand out as countries where comedy has grown into a a million-dollar industry. It is no wonder then that Noah, as Africa s king of comedy, is South African. In East Africa, comedy still has take root, and is still in its infancy as far as earnings are concerned. In Kenya, there is only one comedian cashing in on TV Daniel Ndambuki, known by his stage name Churchill to his legion of fans across the region. His show on NTV, the Churchill Show, is a hit with both advertisers and viewers. How much he earns is a closely guarded secret, but the industry grapevine says he is handsomely compensated. Eric Omondi, Churchill's prot g , tried his hand twice in television stand-up comedy and failed, but he seems to have found his niche online where his YouTube channel and other social media platforms have thousands of followers, earning him money from advertising. It looks like he has captured the millennial market just like Noah. Most comedians in Kenya make money by hosting events and radio shows, but never seem to grow past that. Dr Ofweneke has a comedy show on Ebru TV called Tonight Live, which unfortunately is a copy of The Daily Show. In Uganda, Anne Kansiime has hit the jackpot with her brand of humour, first exclusively done on YouTube. She ventured into comedy by posting her five-minute skits on YouTube, which proved to be a hit with viewers in the region and later around the world. She was approached by Kenya-based Citizen TV who gave her a platform, and she excelled at that, before Africa pay TV giant MultiChoice came calling and she moved on. Joseph Opio, by Hollywood structure, is at the bottom of the pyramid when it comes to salary. As per the Writers Guild of America, the starting salary for a writer in late night show is $4,198 per week.But that is where almost everyone starts their journey to the top. Opio s boss, Trevor Noah, joined The Daily Show as a correspondent and writer, but his rise was meteoric as he took over from the incomparable Jon Stewart just weeks after he joined.According to Business Insider, at the time of his resignation, Stewart was US television s highest-paid late-night TV personality, earning between $25 million to $35 million a year.Noah s salary is yet to be made public, but many say that while he is nowhere near that ballpark, he is way past the million dollar mark. Some of his late night TV counterparts rake in millions.According to Forbes, Stephen Colbert of The Late Show and Jimmy Fallon of The Tonight Show take home $15 million each per year, followed by Conan O Brien of Conan at $12.5 million, and Jimmy Kimmel of Jimmy Kimmel Live who earns $12 million.But these are giants on US late night TV who bring in millions in advertising and eyeballs. It will not be surprising that Noah s salary could be lower as a newcomer, but he is coming up fast though he is struggling in the ratings.According to Comedy Central, despite a dip in ratings and a general sentiment that he s not as funny or essential as Jon Stewart, he is doing well with millennials. The truth is, our network is a business and our core audience are millennials, Comedy Central president Kent Alterman told The Daily News. And millennials are paying attention to us. In Africa, only South Africa and Nigeria stand out as countries where comedy has grown into a a million-dollar industry. It is no wonder then that Noah, as Africa s king of comedy, is South African. In East Africa, comedy still has take root, and is still in its infancy as far as earnings are concerned. In Kenya, there is only one comedian cashing in on TV Daniel Ndambuki, known by his stage name Churchill to his legion of fans across the region.His show on NTV, the Churchill Show, is a hit with both advertisers and viewers. How much he earns is a closely guarded secret, but the industry grapevine says he is handsomely compensated.Eric Omondi, Churchill's prot g , tried his hand twice in television stand-up comedy and failed, but he seems to have found his niche online where his YouTube channel and other social media platforms have thousands of followers, earning him money from advertising. It looks like he has captured the millennial market just like Noah.Most comedians in Kenya make money by hosting events and radio shows, but never seem to grow past that. Dr Ofweneke has a comedy show on Ebru TV called Tonight Live, which unfortunately is a copy of The Daily Show. In Uganda, Anne Kansiime has hit the jackpot with her brand of humour, first exclusively done on YouTube. She ventured into comedy by posting her five-minute skits on YouTube, which proved to be a hit with viewers in the region and later around the world. She was approached by Kenya-based Citizen TV who gave her a platform, and she excelled at that, before Africa pay TV giant MultiChoice came calling and she moved on.