There was silence in the large office. A phone was ringing somewhere in a corner, but no one bothered to answer it. They were all focused on the scene unfolding before them. She sat at her desk, head bowed next to her computer, her defiant and calm demeanour a complete opposite of the screaming man standing in front of her. The boss was mad. Really, really mad. Then again, when was he not? But today was different, as he yelled and punched the air above the young woman s head, while frothing with anger. Are you just going to sit there? Eh? No smart answers today? I wish I could show you how I feel about you but I can t, he shouted. Well, I can, Noni said, getting to her feet. There was a collective gasp in the air as she stuck her beautifully manicured middle finger right in the boss s face. He was a tall, imposing man, but despite her being a few feet shorter than him, Noni exuded a powerful confidence. An intimidating confidence, especially now that she was angry. You, you- the boss said, a large vein throbbing threateningly on his forehead. Noni stood up defiantly, picked up her bag, turned on her heels and walked out of the dull, grey room with its rows of windows and out to freedom. It was much colder outside than it looked, as the sun filtered through wispy clouds. Noni pulled her sweater around her shoulders. She wasn t sure what to do next. A gentle breeze rustled some leaves, swirling them around, then scattered them with a sudden gust. It nudged her forward with its sudden intensity, and Noni found herself walking as if her feet had a mind of their own. She found herself at a travel agent s office. She wasn t sure how she got there, but she knew she had come to the right place. It was a small room, filled with pictures of exotic destinations. A nervous young man served her. Yes, I d like to leave tomorrow. Tomorrow? the young man couldn t believe his luck. His first day and he was already getting his first client. ****** The light hurt her eyes. Even with her hand up to shade her face, it was too bright. Beautifully bright. The white sand stretched as far as she could see, as the shimmering crystals glowed. She turned her gaze and found relief in the brilliant blue hue of the sea. She got lost in the sound of the rushing waves, the smell of the salty air and the warm white sand under her feet. How had she got here? There was silence in the large office. A phone was ringing somewhere in a corner, but no one bothered to answer it. They were all focused on the scene unfolding before them. She sat at her desk, head bowed next to her computer, her defiant and calm demeanour a complete opposite of the screaming man standing in front of her. The boss was mad. Really, really mad. Then again, when was he not? But today was different, as he yelled and punched the air above the young woman s head, while frothing with anger. Are you just going to sit there? Eh? No smart answers today? I wish I could show you how I feel about you but I can t, he shouted. Well, I can, Noni said, getting to her feet. There was a collective gasp in the air as she stuck her beautifully manicured middle finger right in the boss s face. He was a tall, imposing man, but despite her being a few feet shorter than him, Noni exuded a powerful confidence. An intimidating confidence, especially now that she was angry. You, you- the boss said, a large vein throbbing threateningly on his forehead. Noni stood up defiantly, picked up her bag, turned on her heels and walked out of the dull, grey room with its rows of windows and out to freedom. It was much colder outside than it looked, as the sun filtered through wispy clouds. Noni pulled her sweater around her shoulders. She wasn t sure what to do next. A gentle breeze rustled some leaves, swirling them around, then scattered them with a sudden gust. It nudged her forward with its sudden intensity, and Noni found herself walking as if her feet had a mind of their own.She found herself at a travel agent s office. She wasn t sure how she got there, but she knew she had come to the right place. It was a small room, filled with pictures of exotic destinations. A nervous young man served her. Yes, I d like to leave tomorrow. Tomorrow? the young man couldn t believe his luck. His first day and he was already getting his first client.******The light hurt her eyes. Even with her hand up to shade her face, it was too bright. Beautifully bright. The white sand stretched as far as she could see, as the shimmering crystals glowed. She turned her gaze and found relief in the brilliant blue hue of the sea. She got lost in the sound of the rushing waves, the smell of the salty air and the warm white sand under her feet. How had she got here?