What controls are needed to curb illegal use of narcotic drugs in Rwanda amid reports of increasing consumption among the youth? That is the question law enforcement agencies are grappling with. While the police want severe deterrents, the Ministry of Justice favours rehabilitation of offenders, arguing that the death penalty has not deterred use in Asian countries. This was at the centre of a recent seminar organised by the Senate on transnational crimes. We need to task Rwandans to step up the fight against drugs abuse, said Senator Narcisse Musabeyezu. Among the proposals is severe punishment for people convicted of drug abuse and trafficking with some advocating amendments of the penal code. We need to work on our laws ... to deter this crime by increasing the severity of punishment to the extent that any convicted offended would never think of recidivism and would serve as an example to others, proposed Brig Gen George Rwigamba, the Commissioner General for Rwanda Correctional Service (RCS). Rwandan penal code punishes consumption, injection, and inhalation of narcotic drugs with a term of imprisonment ranging between one and three years and a fine of between Rwf50,000 and Rwf500,000. The sentence for those in the trade chain within the country goes up to five years of imprisonment and a fine that can go up to Rwf5 million. The punishment is double for those involved in transnational trade. However, Ministry of Justice officials believe that increasing the severity of punishment is likely to do little, if any, to deter crimes. Even in countries with death penalties for drug traffickers, the crime still persists, warned Evode Uwizeyimana, the State Minister for Constitutional and Legal affairs. The minister said more needs to be put in rehabilitating the offenders, adding that the Rwanda Correctional Services should focus on correction, not just detention. The Rwanda National Police also shares the view that rehabilitation of drug abusers is the best option, while keeping tough punishments to those involved in the illegal trade. We already have a model, the Iwawa centre; we need more centres, where drug abusers can be incarcerated and rehabilitated, and learn a skill that would help them cope with life said Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Morris Muligo, the acting Commissioner for the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Analysts say the government must first conduct research on the actual reasons pushing the youth in abusing drugs. There are no concrete statistics on drug abuse among Rwandan youth, however the National Police places cannabis and Kanyanga, an illegal locally distilled spirit, on top of drugs abused in the country. What controls are needed to curb illegal use of narcotic drugs in Rwanda amid reports of increasing consumption among the youth?That is the question law enforcement agencies are grappling with. While the police want severe deterrents, the Ministry of Justice favours rehabilitation of offenders, arguing that the death penalty has not deterred use in Asian countries.This was at the centre of a recent seminar organised by the Senate on transnational crimes. We need to task Rwandans to step up the fight against drugs abuse, said Senator Narcisse Musabeyezu.Among the proposals is severe punishment for people convicted of drug abuse and trafficking with some advocating amendments of the penal code. We need to work on our laws ... to deter this crime by increasing the severity of punishment to the extent that any convicted offended would never think of recidivism and would serve as an example to others, proposed Brig Gen George Rwigamba, the Commissioner General for Rwanda Correctional Service (RCS).Rwandan penal code punishes consumption, injection, and inhalation of narcotic drugs with a term of imprisonment ranging between one and three years and a fine of between Rwf50,000 and Rwf500,000. The sentence for those in the trade chain within the country goes up to five years of imprisonment and a fine that can go up to Rwf5 million. The punishment is double for those involved in transnational trade. However, Ministry of Justice officials believe that increasing the severity of punishment is likely to do little, if any, to deter crimes. Even in countries with death penalties for drug traffickers, the crime still persists, warned Evode Uwizeyimana, the State Minister for Constitutional and Legal affairs.The minister said more needs to be put in rehabilitating the offenders, adding that the Rwanda Correctional Services should focus on correction, not just detention. The Rwanda National Police also shares the view that rehabilitation of drug abusers is the best option, while keeping tough punishments to those involved in the illegal trade. We already have a model, the Iwawa centre; we need more centres, where drug abusers can be incarcerated and rehabilitated, and learn a skill that would help them cope with life said Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Morris Muligo, the acting Commissioner for the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).Analysts say the government must first conduct research on the actual reasons pushing the youth in abusing drugs. There are no concrete statistics on drug abuse among Rwandan youth, however the National Police places cannabis and Kanyanga, an illegal locally distilled spirit, on top of drugs abused in the country.