Information and communications technology companies in Rwanda are working on improved access to fixed broadband even as some ask about the readiness of the market. For example, local operator Liquid Telecom has begun connecting residential areas in Kigali and other urban centres while EutelSat, a European satellite broadband provider plans to bring its Konnect Africa brand to the country. Some observers and users cite other Internet connection technologies such as wireless, mobile Internet for their scepticism, while affordability is often cited as a hindrance. More than 4,500km of fibre has been laid across Rwanda but few businesses and homes are connected to the network. There is still a significant broadband divide although there are measures under way to accelerate closing the gap, and satellite solutions are one of them, said Francois Boullete, the director for business development at Eutelsat. Although satellite broadband is also known for its high cost, Mr Boullete said they are working towards a competitive pricing. Liquid chief executive Sam Nkusi said they are addressing both access and affordability. The combination of satellite and fibre technologies could increase access to broadband. Some experts have cited landlocked Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi among countries with the most expensive fixed -broadband. According to Mr Boullete, fibre makes sense for urban areas, while satellite broadband can efficiently target any part of a given territory, irrespective of location or population. READ: Rwanda looks at 2017 as year of ICT growth Internet penetration in the country is still relatively low at 33 per cent according to the Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency, with consumption dominated by mobile Internet and wireless connection. According to the telecom regulator only 3,781 people access broadband against a total Internet subscriber base of 3,664,609 as of August 2016. Information and communications technology companies in Rwanda are working on improved access to fixed broadband even as some ask about the readiness of the market.For example, local operator Liquid Telecom has begun connecting residential areas in Kigali and other urban centres while EutelSat, a European satellite broadband provider plans to bring its Konnect Africa brand to the country.Some observers and users cite other Internet connection technologies such as wireless, mobile Internet for their scepticism, while affordability is often cited as a hindrance.More than 4,500km of fibre has been laid across Rwanda but few businesses and homes are connected to the network. There is still a significant broadband divide although there are measures under way to accelerate closing the gap, and satellite solutions are one of them, said Francois Boullete, the director for business development at Eutelsat.Although satellite broadband is also known for its high cost, Mr Boullete said they are working towards a competitive pricing. Liquid chief executive Sam Nkusi said they are addressing both access and affordability.The combination of satellite and fibre technologies could increase access to broadband. Some experts have cited landlocked Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi among countries with the most expensive fixed -broadband.According to Mr Boullete, fibre makes sense for urban areas, while satellite broadband can efficiently target any part of a given territory, irrespective of location or population.READ: Rwanda looks at 2017 as year of ICT growthInternet penetration in the country is still relatively low at 33 per cent according to the Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency, with consumption dominated by mobile Internet and wireless connection.According to the telecom regulator only 3,781 people access broadband against a total Internet subscriber base of 3,664,609 as of August 2016.