The Christian play Heaven’s Gates, Hell’s Flames proved once again to be a hit with Kigalians. Performed by the Creatives Arts Department of the Christian Life Assembly, it attracted a record number of over 10,000 people at the Nyarutarama-based church from December 20 to 24. Entrance was free. This was the third time since 2015, for the play to be presented in place of the Christmas Cantata. Christmas Cantata is the story of the birth of Jesus, while Heaven’s Gates, Hell’s Flames explores the themes of why Jesus was born and what it means for those who believe in him. Heaven’s Gates, Hell’s Flames juxtaposes scenes from heaven and hell from the Christian faith point of view. “This year we wanted to bring something different, which would impact more on the lives of people in line with Christmas,” said Fabrice Nzeyimana, the head of the Creative Arts Department at Christian Life Assembly. The play first premiered in 2000, and seeks to address the who, how, where and what of Christianity’s judgment day. The play was directed by Nzeyimana and the performance took two hours featuring over 150 youth actors who took the audience through captivating theatrical scenes. The play, which taps into life’s reality, of how believers and non-believers view earthly life, and the unpredictability of life. The drama further incorporates great humour, which helps audiences to relate well with the message while understanding various situations in life. The play keeps the audience glued to their seats through some intense and dramatic moments. Right from the stage, which is designed to suit each scene, to the live music which involves adrenaline-raising sound effects, backed by rhythmic lighting, in a convincing style, the play delivers the message it intends to. That heaven and hell are as different as night and day. The production took six months to put together and was a free gift to the city of Kigali and the residents. “Christian Life Assembly believes in excellence, and building each person, which we believe is part of worship itself,” said Nzeyimana.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.