In the tiny nation of the Comoros, off the east coast of Africa, Albert Karaziwan is a big man — even though he doesn’t live there.  He has been a roving ambassador for the country, has twice attended the United Nations General Assembly with the Comoros delegation and holds three current Comoros diplomatic passports. But Karaziwan is not a politician, diplomat or a native of the Comoros. He is an international businessman born in Syria and a citizen of Belgium, whose company Semlex Group has supplied and made passports or other ID documents for the Comoros and over a dozen other African nations. A Reuters examination of Semlex e-mails, corporate records and signed contracts found that Karaziwan has won business in the Comoros and elsewhere in Africa — on paper worth hundreds of millions of dollars — through political connections, sometimes without going through open tender processes and sometimes while making payments to intermediaries. At the same time, presidential decrees and other documents from the Comoros shed new light on how Comoros passports, supplied by Semlex, are being bought by foreign citizens, some of whom are suspected by Comoros and foreign authorities of being security threats. Reuters determined that at least two buyers of Comoros passports are people accused by US authorities of breaking sanctions against Iran. Karaziwan’s political links are remarkable. In the Comoros, where Semlex first won a contract to supply passports and other documents in 2007, he was made a special adviser and roving ambassador by former president Ahmed Abdallah Mohammed Sambi. At least eight of his staff and associates acquired Comoros honorary consulships, according to Comoros government documents seen by Reuters. The honorary consulships, nominated between 2010 and 2012, ranged from Mombasa to Monaco. On receiving questions from Reuters, Sambi indicated he would answer but did not respond by the time of publication. Karaziwan is listed on a Comoros government database as having three current Comoros passports. The database shows his Belgian wife, Catherine Laurent, was issued with a Comoros diplomatic passport in 2010, and that their 27-year-old son, Alexandre, who works for an IT consultancy in Brussels, also has one. Some Semlex staff were also issued with them. Reuters was unable to determine why the Comoros granted these credentials or why the Karaziwans and Semlex associates may have sought them. In general, according to law enforcement officials, such passports and consular nominations facilitate travel, open doors and, in some cases, make doing business easier. Karaziwan did not respond to a request for an interview or to questions sent to him by e-mail.  A Brussels-based lawyer representing Semlex, Francois Koning, said Karaziwan would not comment for this article, claiming that unidentified third parties were manipulating Reuters with the aim of damaging Karaziwan and Semlex. Laurent said she had no role at Semlex and did not know whether she had a Comoros diplomatic passport.  “It is possible, but I don’t use one, so I am not sure,” she said. Alexandre Karaziwan did not respond to several requests for comment sent to him via his LinkedIn account. DRC's case Albert Karaziwan’s activities have come at a cost for many citizens of Africa. In April, Reuters reported how Karaziwan struck a deal to supply biometric passports to the Democratic Republic of Congo for which its citizens have to pay $185 each. DRC previously charged $100 for passports. The current deal arranged for $60 from each passport to go to an obscure Gulf company owned by a close relative of President Joseph Kabila, according to documents and a source familiar with the arrangements.   Mozambique This year, Mozambique terminated a 10-year Semlex contract, potentially worth several hundred million dollars, that had been awarded in 2009 by the previous government.  The deal was struck without an open tender, two sources close to Semlex said. The current Mozambique government says Semlex invested a fraction of the $100 million it had promised to spend on training, electronic scanners at borders and other infrastructure. It says citizens have lost out from the deal. When the passports were introduced, they cost Mozambique citizens $80 while the average income per capita was under $500 per year, though currency changes meant the cost later fell in dollar terms. A review of the contract published in 2015 by Mozambique’s Centre for Public Integrity (CIP), a transparency organisation, said official figures showed that the state collected just 8 per cent of the revenues from ID documents produced between 2011 and 2014. In October, Semlex issued a statement in Mozambique saying it had shut down its operations in the country, but alleging that its contract had been “unjustifiably” terminated.  It called for an independent audit, which the government rejected. An official told Reuters the contract was terminated because Semlex had not met “the rules we agreed upon.” He did not elaborate. Investigations In the Comoros, a parliamentary commission of inquiry is investigating the sale of passports to foreigners to determine whether the process has been legal, who has been involved and where revenues have gone.  Investigators have found that more than 2,800 Comoros diplomatic passports have been issued since 2008 in a country with a population of about 800,000. In that period, at least 184 diplomatic passports were sold to non-Comorans. Since Semlex still produces all Comoros passports, the commission is investigating the company’s role in the matter. Dhoulkamal Dhoihir, vice-president of the Comoros National Assembly and chairman of the commission investigating the passports issue, said: “Semlex is a key player … We have convoked Karaziwan to come here.”The commission summoned Karaziwan in September, hoping he would give evidence. Semlex said Karaziwan would be available for questioning on November 20. He did not turn up. Karaziwan was born in Aleppo, Syria, in 1958, in a family of eight children. In the 1980s, he moved to Brussels to study and married Laurent. Over the years, Karaziwan developed businesses in real estate, restaurants and hotels, according to his company website and corporate documents.  He set up Semlex in 1992 and prospered. In a copy of his CV shared with colleagues in 2008, Karaziwan said his businesses had a combined value of €100 million ($118 million). Semlex is a family company and not listed on a stock exchange. Its main operating unit, Semlex Europe, has a core of only about a dozen employees, according to company documents.  Semlex emails reviewed by Reuters show the informal way Karaziwan and his associates have worked behind the scenes to punch above their weight. In June 2004, Helder Tavares Proenca, a writer and politician, was named as Semlex’s agent in the West African country of Guinea-Bissau, according to Semlex documents reviewed by Reuters. In November 2005, Proenca became defence minister and in early 2006 Semlex won contracts to supply the country with passports, visas, ID cards and foreign resident cards, according to Semlex copies of the agreements. 
  
Semlex Group has won business in the Comoros and elsewhere in Africa through political connections. 
Former football star’s camp says he is set to win Liberia’s presidential election run-off. 
Gilfred Powys was a director at the 43,000 acre Suyian Ranch in central Laikipia.