Regional security firm KK has reported a 10 per cent drop in revenues at a time when big players in the sector are complaining of unfair competition. The company acquired by Canadian GardaWorld last December at an estimated $10.9 million, posted revenues of Ksh9 billion ($90 million), according to a report by South African rating agency, GCR. Writedowns, intermittent foreign exchange losses, interest costs and tax inefficiencies arising from the group’s complex corporate structure condemned KK to losses for the third year in a row, notes the GCR report. “EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) fell five per cent to Ksh649 million ($6.4 million), amid a slowdown in business activity and heightened competitive pressures in Kenya, which saw KK lose key contracts. Similar conditions have led to a further decline in earnings into 2018,” said the rating agency. Industry players blame the revenue falls to loss of contracts to small firms that do not adhere to labour laws. “In May, the government announced an 18 per cent wage increase which was only implemented by tier one firms; this has seen some clients move to tier two and three companies because they are cheaper,” said managing director of Securex Group Tony Sahni. Kenya’s security industry has attracted new entrants due to rising demand occasioned by terror attacks.  This has resulted in cut-throat competition as the new players sought to gain market share. Availability of cheap labour due to high unemployment rates has seen some security firms pay their employees poorly.  The Private Security Industry Act passed in 2016 was expected to bring sanity to the sector, but insiders say it has not been effective due to weak leadership. A committee had been set up to steer the implementation of the new laws which were expected to favour large players who were compliant with most of the regulations.  KK has operations in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Malawi and the Democratic Republic of Congo. GardaWorld has injected Ksh600 million ($6 million) in the company to reduce its debt levels which had more than doubled in three years to Ksh1.7 billion ($17 million) in 2016 during an expansion drive. 
  
EAC negotiating as a bloc, while SADC, Comesa hold individual country positions. 
The final technical study is unlikely to be completed by the Dec 31 ultimatum.