When President John Magufuli publicly announced that he had pardoned thousands of prisoners to commemorate the Independence of Tanganyika this past week, he was simply doing what his predecessors have been doing since the early 1960s.  This is a time to show sovereign clemency, and in our formalistic setup, such clemency is vested in the sovereign power incarnated in the president of the republic, so no one would so much as bat an eyelid. But when he specifically pointed out two of the prisoners to be released through his clemency, some jaws had to be picked from the floor, so great was the amazement in certain quarters. For these two were a father and his son who were serving life after being found guilty of having sexually abused young schoolgirls, the abuses including defilement and sodomy, unspeakable offences in our supposedly polite society. The father and son, both crooners, had exhausted all the legal appeals available to them, but the sentence had been confirmed. That, of course, did not constitute a hindrance to the presidential pardon, so everything was in order legalistically. Rather, another jaw-dropping moment came when a mini-riot formed at the gates of the prison where the two had been held, with anxious throngs demanding to see their “heroes.” Video clips showed jail warders struggling to keep order and allow the released prisoners to get out smoothly. But word of this kind travels fast, and throngs had formed along the route the pair were to take, with young people shouting themselves hoarse and jumping and throwing themselves down in ecstatic seizures, some chanting, some crying. Heroic status  A most astonishing scene, if you ask me. How had these condemned individuals acquired such heroic status that such a sizeable crowd could come out to receive them as people normally welcome liberators, victorious sportsmen/women and other distinguished personalities?  Was there a widespread belief that the law courts had for some reason not given them a fair trial, or that the law was intrinsically bad, or that the prison terms they received were too harsh? I am still baffled, and basically my bafflement grows out of my suspicion that even the questions I am posing here could well be irrelevant.  As is the wont of such heavy kicks to the groin, the provincial Governor of Mwanza, John Mongella, almost at the same time this was happening, announced that all pregnant schoolgirls who fail to mention the men who knocked them up should be arrested and charged. Charged with what, he did not say, but the irony was not lost on too many people, that on one hand we are amnestying child defilers and on the other we want to arrest the victims of child defilement. I have said, ad nauseam, that rather than haggle over political philosophies and ideologies (things we can even hardly wrap our heads around), let’s just try to make sense, to be rational and sane. I see little sanity around. It is to be regretted that after three or so decades in which valiant women and men established a number of principles concerning gender equity and justice, we have slipped back into the morass of misogyny, or at best, outright nonchalance when we are confronted with egregious acts of violence against women. But maybe we want to keep the good company offered us by Donald Trump and his coterie, who went on supporting the candidacy of Roy Moore even after several women accused him of sexual offences, including against minors. The beauty of these Bible-thumpers who would like us to believe they talk with God every lunch hour, is that their hypocrisy is not better than ours. One thumper by the name of Jim Ziegler even suggested that it was okay for Moore to harass underage girls because Joseph was a grown carpenter while Mary was a little girl.  That is the way these people’s minds work. He did not even ask himself whether there was anything to suggest Joseph molesting, or making unwanted advances on Mary. The thing is they all wanted votes, and whatever blasphemy they blurted out was to be understood against that background. Between the bigots in Alabama and the ones closer home, whom I always see praying and invoking the Almighty, I cannot choose. The only thing I know is that if they ever go to some heaven, I wanna opt out. Jenerali Ulimwengu is chairman of the board of the Raia Mwema newspaper and an advocate of the High Court in Dar es Salaam. E-mail: ulimwengu@jenerali.com 
  
EAC negotiating as a bloc, while SADC, Comesa hold individual country positions. 
The final technical study is unlikely to be completed by the Dec 31 ultimatum.