Rwanda's Supreme Court is set to issue a landmark ruling on the competence of the detached chambers of the High Court to try international and trans-border crimes.  A ruling that favours the petitioner would raise questions over the legitimacy of decisions made by courts that did not have jurisdiction over the cases. The case arose from a petition filed by an advocate challenging the decision of the High Court chambers in Nyanza, which sentenced his client to five years in jail for human trafficking. The other detached High Court chambers are in Rusizi, Rwamagana and Musanze. Lawyer Mulinga Kadage Laban said the decision by the Nyanza High Court chamber to try his client, despite objections, “contradicted the Constitution, which provides for the right to due process.” The petitioner wants the decision of the Nyanza High Court quashed and a fresh trial held for his client, Bukuru Germaine, in a competent court. She was found guilty of trafficking young Rwandan women to Oman in the Middle East.  The Rwandan Constitution, revised in 2015, provides that “everyone has a right to appear before a competent court.” The law that determines the organisation, functioning and jurisdiction of courts puts international and transborder crimes — a category in which human trafficking belongs — under the exclusive jurisdiction of the specialised High Court Chamber for International Crimes. No anomalies  However, the prosecution did not see any anomalies with the Nyanza court trying the case as they argue that international and transborder crimes fall under the jurisdiction of the specialised High Court Chamber for International Crimes. “There are many cases of transnational crimes that are heard and determined by the detached chambers. It is time for the Supreme Court to provide guidance on this,” said Hermogène Higaniro, the national prosecutor in the case.  “We want to understand if all cases of drug traffickers between Rwanda and Tanzania or other neighbouring counties ought to be heard by the specialised chamber in Kigali,” Mr Higaniro said. It is not common to find a case challenging the jurisdiction of a court after it has rendered a final verdict and sentenced the accused, and the Supreme Court asked the petitioner to explain why he did not raise the objection with the lower courts.   “We raised this objection with the High Court in Nyanza, but the judge ruled that it was not founded and proceeded to hear the case. This left us no other option but to appeal against this decision,” lawyer Mulinga responded. Supreme Court verdict The Supreme Court will issue its verdict on December 22. This decision will determine if the Supreme Court will proceed and hear the appeal in the Bukuru case or if it will send it back to the High Court to be heard by a competent chamber.  Whatever decision the Supreme Court takes, it will set a precedent in the administration of justice in international and crossborder crimes.  A decision upholding the jurisdiction of Nyanza High Court Chamber to try Bukuru would legitimise all previous international and transborder cases tried by detached chambers, and will reinforce their stand paving the way for future unquestioned jurisdiction to try such cases. A decision to the contrary would put the legitimacy of a number of cases tried by these chambers in jeopardy.  Related stories: 
  
Clerics, unionists, and diplomats intensify call for dialogue as soon as next month. 
The region needs a way forward, and very fast because everyone wants a skyscraper.