Tanzania is the only East African country that has neither signed nor ratified the African Union Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance. Donald Deya, chief executive officer of the Pan-African Lawyers Union, said only Rwanda and South Sudan have so far signed and ratified the charter, while Kenya and Uganda have signed but not ratified it. He was speaking during the launching of a project on mobilising civil society organisations in the region to support the African Governance Architecture, a platform inspired by the Constitutive Act of the African Union promoting democratic governance on the continent. The East African Civil Society Organisation Platform and Action Aid’s Global Platform are carrying out the three-year project in Ghana, Mozambique, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The AU adopted the charter on January 30, 2007, in Addis Ababa to promote democracy, rule of law and basic human rights, ensure democratic rule and constitutional changes of power through free, fair and transparent elections. So far, 45 countries on the continent have signed the charter while, 30 have ratified and deposited instruments of the ratification. Six other African countries — Botswana, Egypt, Eritrea, Libya, Morocco and Zimbabwe — have neither signed nor ratified. The charter The charter requires all AU member countries to promote good governance for the benefit of all citizens by ensuring the rule of law and human rights are respected. It also requires governments to manage their countries transparently, fairly and respect their constitutions without denying eligible persons the right to vote. The AU member countries are also required to observe peaceful transfer of power to parties that legitimately win elections and ensure the security of their citizens. Constitutions are expected to be supreme laws of states with all stakeholders having equal rights to contribute to its review when the need arises. “The charter calls on all African nations to ratify, domesticate, implement and to amend their constitutions, laws, policies, strategies, action plans and budgets in a bid to tally with the AU values,” Mr Deya said. It also calls on the nations to engage their parliaments, courts, national electoral bodies, human rights institutions and anti-corruption watchdogs in the charter.  
  
‘The emergence of strong opposition has forced ruling parties to galvanise and entrench authoritarianism’ 
The ruling party faces an uphill task of replacing the ageing leaders. "The RPF will not be afraid to challenge foreign forces that seek to exploit some Rwandans for