Kenya has entered a crucial stage in nominating its representatives to the East Africa Legislative Assembly. The opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa) has presented 12 names but warned that four must be picked if it is to participate in the process of vetting and endorsing the nominees to take up their seats in the regional assembly. The ruling Jubilee Party has presented a list 15 nominees from which it is seeking six of the nine slots up for grabs due to its numerical strength in the August House.  The operations of EALA have been delayed since June, when the new session was expected to begin, due to political differences that forced Kenyan parliament to shelve the process of nominating its representatives.  READ: Kenya MPs standoff holds up Eala’s reopening It is for this reason that Nasa wants the four slots it was entitled to when the nominations were due in June last year, but Jubilee Party is staking claim on six seats, saying the nomination is being done by the current parliament, where it has the majority. With MPs back to work after a three-week recess, the Kenyans representatives must take up their seats by December 12 to enable the regional assembly to transact its first business — election of the Speaker.  READ: Deadline looms for Kenya to give EALA nominee list EALA members Only Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda have elected their EALA members. Each member country of the East African Community is required to send nine representatives. South Sudan has revoked the nomination of its nine members to the regional assembly because they were appointed through a presidential decree and were confirmed by the National Assembly in March. The head of the Committee of Legal Affairs in the National Transitional Legislative Assembly in Juba, Dengtiel Ayuen, raised a motion to withdraw the parliamentary approval after a court in Tanzania rejected their swearing-in. Without EALA sitting, it means that there will be no organ to put pressure on partner states to assent to bills that they have that were ready to be signed into law by the Heads of State and Council of Ministers. 
  
If the laws conflict the statement, then it will be hard to implement the directive. 
Ramaphosa or Dlamini-Zuma? Party chief race down to the wire.