Athletes are now banned from changing nationalities following a proposal by the president of the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), Lord Coe, who said athletics was "vulnerable" to the practice. "It has become abundantly clear with regular multiple transfers of athletes, especially from Africa, that the present rules are no longer fit for purpose," he said. Kenyan and Ethiopian athletes are likely to be most affected by a freeze on nationality switches. The IAAF said it is reviewing current rules to ensure they offer sufficient protection to athletes. The freeze takes effect immediately and will be in place until at least the end of this year, but will not affect applications that are already being processed. Africa’s representative at the IAAF Council, Hamad Malboub, said there exists a wholesale market for talent from the continent that’s open to the highest bidder. Many of the athletes are young and, the IAAF fears, they do not understand they are forfeiting their nationality. More than 20 Kenyan-born athletes represented other countries at the Rio Olympics last year. Some of the countries Kenyan athletes have competed for include Bahrain, US, Qatar and Turkey. Bahrain Bahrain's Olympics team's ex-Kenyans is led by steeplechase record holder Ruth Jebet, who is also World Junior Champion. The 20-year-old won gold at the Rio Olympics in the 3,000m steeplechase, breaking the world record. She broke the world record again a week later in the Diamond League. Others who competed for Bahrain included: United States The US fielded ex-Kenyans led by veteran Bernard Lagat who, at 41, became the oldest American to compete on the track at the Olympics. He ran in the 5,000m race. Lagat competed for Kenya at the 2000 Olympics in Sydney and the 2004 Olympics in Athens before switching nationalities and representing the US at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, the 2012 Olympics in London and the 2016 Olympics in Rio. Other former Kenyans who competed in Rio included people serving in the US army: Turkey Turkey’s Kenyan imports included European 10,000m long distance running champion Yasemin Can, born as Vivian Jemutai, Obzbilan Kaan Kigen, born as Mike Kipruto Kigen and Ali Kaya, formerly Stanley Kiprotich Mukche. Other Kenyans in Turkish colours were: Bosnia, Qatar and Azerbaijan Lucia Kimani-Marcetic represented Bosnia in the marathon. Qatar - the nation which pioneered importation of Kenyan athletes, starting with world steeplechase record holder Said Saeed Shaheen (formerly known as Stephen Cherono) - was represented in Rio by ex-Kenyan Essa Ismail Rasheed (formerly Daniel Kipkosgei) in the marathon. He has competed for Qatar for the last 12 years and won the 10,000m gold medal at the 2005 Asian Championship. Perhaps the most surprising swap in Rio was that of Evans Kiplagat Chebet who represented Azerbaijan in the marathon. Kiplagat has lived in Azerbaijan since April 2015 and acquired Azeri citizenship a year later.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.