Burundi could join Tanzania as a member of the Southern African Development Community, a move that complicates the direction the East Africa Community takes for the remaining phases of integration. Burundi has applied alongside the Union of Comoros for membership in the 15-country regional grouping headquartered in Gaborone, Botswana. The applications were assessed first by the Inter-State Politics and Diplomacy Committee of SADC s Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Co-operation which convened in Dar es Salaam on February 24. This meeting has been tasked to assess the eligibility of both states to join SADC before advising our heads of state accordingly, said Tanzania s Foreign Affairs and East African Co-operation Minister Augustine Mahiga. He added that the two countries applications would be decided by the organisation s heads of states at a later date. Ever since President Pierre Nkurunziza pushed through his third term in office, Burundi has appeared reluctant on EAC matters, boycotting East African Legislative Assembly meetings over its differences with Rwanda and sitting out of the EAC-led Intra-Burundi Dialogue over the involvement of political rivals. READ: Five Burundi MPs to snub EALA session in Kigali ALSO READ: Burundi police chiefs snub regional meet in Kigali Bujumbura and Dar are also opposed to an economic partnership agreement between the EAC and the EU that Kenya and Rwanda have signed as Uganda tries to reconcile the positions. READ: EPA trade deal with Europe is a form of colonialism, says Magufuli SADC and EAC, however, have joined hands with Comesa in a Grand Free Trade Area launched last year. Mr Mahiga said the expulsion by Mozambique of 200 Tanzanians and other foreigners was also to feature during the meeting. We have been informed some of those expelled were involved in criminal activities such as the drugs trade, said Mr Mahiga. READ: Mozambique expels 200 Tanzanians He dismissed claims that the Tanzanians were targeted in the crackdown but added that Tanzania will continue to investigate how its nationals were treated before being deported, amid claims that some of them were beaten up. Burundi could join Tanzania as a member of the Southern African Development Community, a move that complicates the direction the East Africa Community takes for the remaining phases of integration.Burundi has applied alongside the Union of Comoros for membership in the 15-country regional grouping headquartered in Gaborone, Botswana.The applications were assessed first by the Inter-State Politics and Diplomacy Committee of SADC s Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Co-operation which convened in Dar es Salaam on February 24. This meeting has been tasked to assess the eligibility of both states to join SADC before advising our heads of state accordingly, said Tanzania s Foreign Affairs and East African Co-operation Minister Augustine Mahiga.He added that the two countries applications would be decided by the organisation s heads of states at a later date.Ever since President Pierre Nkurunziza pushed through his third term in office, Burundi has appeared reluctant on EAC matters, boycotting East African Legislative Assembly meetings over its differences with Rwanda and sitting out of the EAC-led Intra-Burundi Dialogue over the involvement of political rivals.READ: Five Burundi MPs to snub EALA session in KigaliALSO READ: Burundi police chiefs snub regional meet in KigaliBujumbura and Dar are also opposed to an economic partnership agreement between the EAC and the EU that Kenya and Rwanda have signed as Uganda tries to reconcile the positions. READ: EPA trade deal with Europe is a form of colonialism, says MagufuliSADC and EAC, however, have joined hands with Comesa in a Grand Free Trade Area launched last year. Mr Mahiga said the expulsion by Mozambique of 200 Tanzanians and other foreigners was also to feature during the meeting. We have been informed some of those expelled were involved in criminal activities such as the drugs trade, said Mr Mahiga.READ: Mozambique expels 200 TanzaniansHe dismissed claims that the Tanzanians were targeted in the crackdown but added that Tanzania will continue to investigate how its nationals were treated before being deported, amid claims that some of them were beaten up.