The International Monetary Fund has said it will hold discussions with Kenya during a quarterly review in April, about the country s eligibility to take up a $1.5 billion contingency loan to address external shocks. Kenya made a commitment to the Fund when negotiating the credit that it would control the fiscal deficit during the run up to the August 8 election. The commitment has now been put into question after the Cabinet approved salary increases for civil servants last week that will cost Ksh100 billion ($1 billion) from July. READ: Kenya civil servants set for pay rise in July All these things that are happening in an election year and especially to an economy that is still vulnerable to shocks will be assessed in our next review in April. We are going to reassess the impact of new developments such as drought and increases of the wage bill in the budget, Armando Morales, the IMF resident representative in Kenya, told The EastAfrican. He, however, said the new spending would not be a deal-breaker as long as the government proves its commitment to reduce the fiscal deficit. Last year, the IMF, through a report presented to the executive board on May 6, 2016, observed that Kenya is among countries that exhibit large increases in wage bill spending in the run-up to elections. Others are Kosovo and Moldova. Policy trade-offs According to the report, the wage bill grows on average by 0.53 percentage points during elections in these countries, casting doubt about the sustainability of such spending in subsequent years. The impact of an election appears to be much larger in emerging markets and low income developing countries (LIDCs) compared with the advanced economies. The country case studies on Kenya, Kosovo and Moldova describe large increases in wage bill spending in the run-up to elections, said the report. During election years, the public-to-private wage ratio in LIDCs increases by almost three per cent, according to the Fund. If not effectively integrated into budget planning, high or increasing wage bills can undermine fiscal planning, the report stated. Given Kenya s fiscal constraints, important policy trade-offs are required. While a public sector pay hike in July may lead to a short-term boost to consumption, this will do little to support longer-term growth. Moreover, by not creating additional fiscal space for public investment, a lot more potential growth is forgone, said Razia Khan, the chief economist at Standard Chartered Bank. She added that decades of underinvestment also mean that the Kenyan economy is poorly endowed with infrastructure, despite the increase in development spending in recent years. The International Monetary Fund has said it will hold discussions with Kenya during a quarterly review in April, about the country s eligibility to take up a $1.5 billion contingency loan to address external shocks.Kenya made a commitment to the Fund when negotiating the credit that it would control the fiscal deficit during the run up to the August 8 election.The commitment has now been put into question after the Cabinet approved salary increases for civil servants last week that will cost Ksh100 billion ($1 billion) from July. READ: Kenya civil servants set for pay rise in July All these things that are happening in an election year and especially to an economy that is still vulnerable to shocks will be assessed in our next review in April. We are going to reassess the impact of new developments such as drought and increases of the wage bill in the budget, Armando Morales, the IMF resident representative in Kenya, told The EastAfrican. He, however, said the new spending would not be a deal-breaker as long as the government proves its commitment to reduce the fiscal deficit.Last year, the IMF, through a report presented to the executive board on May 6, 2016, observed that Kenya is among countries that exhibit large increases in wage bill spending in the run-up to elections.Others are Kosovo and Moldova.Policy trade-offsAccording to the report, the wage bill grows on average by 0.53 percentage points during elections in these countries, casting doubt about the sustainability of such spending in subsequent years. The impact of an election appears to be much larger in emerging markets and low income developing countries (LIDCs) compared with the advanced economies. The country case studies on Kenya, Kosovo and Moldova describe large increases in wage bill spending in the run-up to elections, said the report.During election years, the public-to-private wage ratio in LIDCs increases by almost three per cent, according to the Fund. If not effectively integrated into budget planning, high or increasing wage bills can undermine fiscal planning, the report stated. Given Kenya s fiscal constraints, important policy trade-offs are required. While a public sector pay hike in July may lead to a short-term boost to consumption, this will do little to support longer-term growth. Moreover, by not creating additional fiscal space for public investment, a lot more potential growth is forgone, said Razia Khan, the chief economist at Standard Chartered Bank.She added that decades of underinvestment also mean that the Kenyan economy is poorly endowed with infrastructure, despite the increase in development spending in recent years.