Ikenna. In real life, comedians can be surprisingly serious and sombre people, carrying the weight of the world on their shoulders and projecting an angst — a far cry from their on-stage or in front-of-the-camera persona. The Nigerian-British host of BBC’s satirical show What’s Up Africa, is no different. Only that he does not view himself as a comedian. “I enjoy making people laugh and I think I’m okay at it, but I don’t do stand-up. I’m curious by nature and I share a lot of the journalistic values that journalists at the BBC have. I’m somewhere in between these two. Rather than ‘comedian’ or ‘journalist,’ I’d describe myself more as a satirist.” Recently in Kenya to cover news stories suggested by What’s Up Africa fans, Ikenna filmed skits around corruption, censorship, police abuse and nefarious prophets, with the aim of skewering each with his trademark searing wit. But he also covered inspiring stories such as that of Joe Kioko, a male ballet dancer. Ikenna started out as a corporate lawyer, but after four years, he felt he needed to do what was true to his talents and inclinations. Even though his show is a mere three minutes a week (with additional clips on YouTube), you can tell that he is switched on about it and eager to do more. Not only is he earnest about what he does, there is also a big need for it. There is a saying that if you can laugh at your worries, you have gained power over them. What’s Up Africa delivers through satire how Africans talk about their problems, without handwringing and angst. This is a very empowering paradigm shift. That’s why he’s a person to watch out for as an influencer in the next few years. The original angle Having filmed in 12 countries on the continent thus far, What’s Up Africa has featured Uganda and Tanzania in the recent past. In Tanzania, Ikenna’s sketch took the African Development Bank to task for the ambiguity of its statistics, while in Uganda, he took on the government for selling off public school land to commercial developers. So what does it take to make a good show? “There has to be an original angle to a story. Like an argument, a thesis that I am putting forward. And it has to be very funny. I want to entertain people, I want people to laugh out loud. But not always. Sometimes I just want people to go away thinking, ‘Yeah, I hadn’t thought about that in that way.’ The new programme season, starting on March 1, will also feature collaborations with Kenyan comedian Eric Omondi and the Redfourth Chorus. Reading through the comments on Ikenna’s social media feed, he’s been compared to a younger Will Smith, Trevor Noah and Ray William Johnson, but he says the comedians he admires are Jon Stewart, John Oliver and Steven Colbert of the US. “I’m also inspired by people like Serena Williams, who work their backs off and are driven and successful.” What’s Up Africa is breaking the mould, being the first satirical show on the BBC World news channel. On his future plans and legacy, Ikenna says, “BBC has Focus on Africa, which is its flagship Africa show. It would be good if there could also be a 30-minute slot for satire and something that could be a platform not just for the kind of sketches that I do now, but for interviews, music, collaborations with producers and content creators from Africa. In terms of trajectory, I’m hoping it can be like Ali G, who started with small segments on a Friday night show, and then got his own show.” Currently, the show runs 90 seconds on Wednesdays and Fridays, with additional extras occasionally put online. Ikenna has been doing the show for six and a half years now. The sixth season starts on March 1, and ends at the end of the same month. ------------------------------------------ What’s your off-duty passion? Promoting environmental sustainability by organising events and campaigns around the issue through Strawberry Earth, an organisation I started with my girlfriend. I worry about the state of the world and this is my outlet for that. I also sleep since I never seem to have enough time for a good sleep. It has become a luxury. Besides spending quality time with my family, I play football with friends in the park, which is very charitable of me since I am much better than all of them. If you hadn’t turned into who you are now, what would you be? An unhappy, wealthy lawyer, always contemplating what could have been... What signifies your personal style? I love wearing my dad’s old shirts from Nigeria. And basically everything that says contemporary West African fashion. How do you manage your wardrobe? With difficulty. It takes time to search through vintage stores for cool clothes, and I usually don’t have that kind of time. And that is besides the fact that many of the designers I love are too pricey for my budget. When in East Africa, where are you most likely to be whiling away your time on a Saturday afternoon? In an eatery or bar eating ugali [corn meal], chips [French fries] and nyama choma [roast meat]. Or maybe playing pool, telling stories and goofing around, ranting about the ills of the world and watching football highlights with friends. Describe your best destination yet in East Africa? Nairobi, although I have not yet visited Addis Ababa. I have heard good things about Addis. Anywhere on your must-visit list? Ethiopia. What do you see as East Africa’s greatest strength? It’s quiet ingenuity as opposed to the brash ingenuity of West Africa. What’s your best collection? My kids. I have two. I hope that that counts as a collection? What’s the most thoughtful gift you have ever received? A surprise birthday party. What’s the best gift you have given? A friend of ours said that for his birthday he wanted to hear personal stories from his closest friends. So I shared a very personal letter I once wrote to my parents. Your last great read? Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel. Which movie had an impact on you? Captain Fantastic. What’s your favourite music?Highlife. I enjoy the music of Rex Lawson, and Sir Victor Uwaifo. Your favourite website?www.bbc.com What’s a constant in your fridge? I am always opening the fridge looking for snacks that have been eaten by the rest of my household. When I am home I often eat like a mouse, in small bites. When I’m travelling in either West or East Africa, I tend to eat three square meals a day, which is healthier.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.