Java is East Africa s largest coffee chain with 25 outlets in Kenya and Uganda, and now Rwanda. Java is located at the Kigali Heights establishment at the Kimihurura roundabout, next to the Radisson Blu Hotel and the Kigali Convention Centre. It is located at the corner of the first floor of the building, offering a picturesque view of the Kimihurura roundabout. The aroma of roasted coffee beans entices you into the premises. Just a month after its opening, it has become the hangout spot in town, popular with families, government officials and businesspeople networking. The free Wi-Fi is an added attraction, and you can keep up with social media. Java is an ideal lunch spot with generous portions and a variety of meals. The outdoor shaded area resembles a cosy holiday retreat. Just a short drive from Kigali International Airport, it is the perfect escape from the city s hustle and bustle. When I was there, I found the waiters to be extremely hospitable, although a bit slow in taking my order. It took even longer to get my order served, which was a bit of a downer for a devoted Java customer expecting the same service as their other coffeehouse chains in Nairobi. I enjoyed a mouth-watering Americanesque veggie burger. With more protein and iron than a beef burger and more omegas than salmon, this gluten- and soy-free burger packs a nutritional punch. It had a perfect patty, for those looking for an authentic beefy burger. You can have it classic-style with lettuce, tomato, and your favourite condiments. This was accompanied by a milkshake. Java is East Africa s largest coffee chain with 25 outlets in Kenya and Uganda, and now Rwanda. Java is located at the Kigali Heights establishment at the Kimihurura roundabout, next to the Radisson Blu Hotel and the Kigali Convention Centre. It is located at the corner of the first floor of the building, offering a picturesque view of the Kimihurura roundabout. The aroma of roasted coffee beans entices you into the premises. Just a month after its opening, it has become the hangout spot in town, popular with families, government officials and businesspeople networking. The free Wi-Fi is an added attraction, and you can keep up with social media.Java is an ideal lunch spot with generous portions and a variety of meals. The outdoor shaded area resembles a cosy holiday retreat. Just a short drive from Kigali International Airport, it is the perfect escape from the city s hustle and bustle. When I was there, I found the waiters to be extremely hospitable, although a bit slow in taking my order. It took even longer to get my order served, which was a bit of a downer for a devoted Java customer expecting the same service as their other coffeehouse chains in Nairobi. I enjoyed a mouth-watering Americanesque veggie burger. With more protein and iron than a beef burger and more omegas than salmon, this gluten- and soy-free burger packs a nutritional punch.It had a perfect patty, for those looking for an authentic beefy burger. You can have it classic-style with lettuce, tomato, and your favourite condiments. This was accompanied by a milkshake.