Two American academics are riding the crest of an Obamamania wave. With serious narratives as well as puff pieces galore pouring off the presses on this cool, charismatic African-American intellectual s eight-year tenure in the White House, it was only a matter of time before an Obama and Kenya was scripted. The book, titled Obama and Kenya; Contested Histories and the Politics of Belonging, is by Matthew Carotenuto and Katherine Luongo (2016). Despite a general assessment of Obama s legacy for both Kenya and the US being premature, compelling insights into mutually inclusive issues lying un-or-under-investigated by East Africans themselves can be contributed by foreign scholars. On the Obama side, with only three memoirs and no interviews, the equation imbalance necessitated a wide-angle lens on the Kenyan state. The authors dominant strategy is constructing a history of Kenya through the story of an American president s paternal heritage The challenge these two historians confront is ethnicity/identity politics/tribalism refracted through an American lens of contested histories and the politics of belonging. Past episodes in African history projected as flashbacks give the work a seductive, documentary film quality. Carotenuto and Luongo begin with a historiographical overview of antiquated Eurocentric myths about the continent as a whole. In a process Chinese-American scholar of postcolonial literature Pheng Cheah calls unworlding, they destroy old Eurocentric assumptions that once dominated the discipline. From pseudo-scientific deductions of Social Darwinism to Hugh Trevor- Roper s damning indictment of African history as non-history, to the hilariously smug White Man s Country to Kenyan settler-farmer Karen Blixen and her patronising memoir, the authors apparent aim is to kick every dead horse in the stable of yesteryear s panoply of African Studies clich s and conceits. As these contested histories are neither still contested nor are germane to their stated aims, their inclusion is a mystery. Ignoring the entirety of Kenya, the authors zoom in on South Nyanza, to a tribal landscape leading to the land of Luoness and Obama s ancestral home at K Ogello, anglicised here to Kogelo. Why? Except for his immediate family, Obama appears detached from South Nyanza, having no special engagement with Kenya or its Jaluo politicians on their many visits to the US during Obama s first term. This despite the authors admitting that Obama himself did not identify as Kenyan or Luo. Kenyan issues are filtered through the unedited opinions of South Nyanza Jaluo; the authors apparently seeing little necessity (as reflected in interviewees names) to gain the views of other Kenyans. Throughout this work, the Luo are seen as victims of a vengeful state. This despite the fact that after Independence in l963 when Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, a Luo, served as vice-president under Jomo Kenyatta as Kenya s first elected president. Reflecting on the several post-Independence assassinations of politicians, the authors, through an informant, report: If it was not for Jaramogi, the Luos would have been finished. A Rwandan-style genocide in Kenya? Similarly, the former US president s father, Barrack Obama Sr, had suffered at Kenya s Ministry of Finance because of the difficulties of being a Luo in the wilderness. Two American academics are riding the crest of an Obamamania wave. With serious narratives as well as puff pieces galore pouring off the presses on this cool, charismatic African-American intellectual s eight-year tenure in the White House, it was only a matter of time before an Obama and Kenya was scripted. The book, titled Obama and Kenya; Contested Histories and the Politics of Belonging, is by Matthew Carotenuto and Katherine Luongo (2016). Despite a general assessment of Obama s legacy for both Kenya and the US being premature, compelling insights into mutually inclusive issues lying un-or-under-investigated by East Africans themselves can be contributed by foreign scholars. On the Obama side, with only three memoirs and no interviews, the equation imbalance necessitated a wide-angle lens on the Kenyan state. The authors dominant strategy is constructing a history of Kenya through the story of an American president s paternal heritage The challenge these two historians confront is ethnicity/identity politics/tribalism refracted through an American lens of contested histories and the politics of belonging. Past episodes in African history projected as flashbacks give the work a seductive, documentary film quality. Carotenuto and Luongo begin with a historiographical overview of antiquated Eurocentric myths about the continent as a whole. In a process Chinese-American scholar of postcolonial literature Pheng Cheah calls unworlding, they destroy old Eurocentric assumptions that once dominated the discipline. From pseudo-scientific deductions of Social Darwinism to Hugh Trevor- Roper s damning indictment of African history as non-history, to the hilariously smug White Man s Country to Kenyan settler-farmer Karen Blixen and her patronising memoir, the authors apparent aim is to kick every dead horse in the stable of yesteryear s panoply of African Studies clich s and conceits. As these contested histories are neither still contested nor are germane to their stated aims, their inclusion is a mystery. Ignoring the entirety of Kenya, the authors zoom in on South Nyanza, to a tribal landscape leading to the land of Luoness and Obama s ancestral home at K Ogello, anglicised here to Kogelo. Why? Except for his immediate family, Obama appears detached from South Nyanza, having no special engagement with Kenya or its Jaluo politicians on their many visits to the US during Obama s first term. This despite the authors admitting that Obama himself did not identify as Kenyan or Luo. Kenyan issues are filtered through the unedited opinions of South Nyanza Jaluo; the authors apparently seeing little necessity (as reflected in interviewees names) to gain the views of other Kenyans. Throughout this work, the Luo are seen as victims of a vengeful state. This despite the fact that after Independence in l963 when Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, a Luo, served as vice-president under Jomo Kenyatta as Kenya s first elected president. Reflecting on the several post-Independence assassinations of politicians, the authors, through an informant, report: If it was not for Jaramogi, the Luos would have been finished. A Rwandan-style genocide in Kenya? Similarly, the former US president s father, Barrack Obama Sr, had suffered at Kenya s Ministry of Finance because of the difficulties of being a Luo in the wilderness. 