Rwanda Development Board (RDB) announced the launch of mountain gorilla naming activities, locally called Kwita Izina, ahead of the event scheduled on September 1. This year marks the 13th edition of the annual flagship event that brings together conservation enthusiasts from all over the world to celebrate the country’s success in protecting an endangered species. The theme of this year is Conservation and Sustainable Tourism: A Foundation for Future Generations. “Rwanda’s conservation journey has been more rewarding within the past decade, because of the involvement of local communities within the entire tourism and conservation industry to uphold responsibility and sustainability to biodiversity,” said Belise Kariza, the chief tourism officer at RDB. READ: Kwita Izina still excites in its 13th year Kariza announced planned activities for Kwita Izina week with a call to action for the public and all key stakeholders to participate and drive the discourse on sustainable tourism, leaving a stamp for future generations. The week-long event will start with a gala dinner on August 26, where industry leaders will come together to celebrate and support Rwanda’s conservation success and raise funds for the Volcanoes National Park conservation. This will be followed by a conservation and tourism exhibition on August 27 and 28, targeting the public and industry stakeholders to showcase diverse tourism products in the region and host education displays. READ: More international tourists come to Rwanda The “Conversation on Conservation” to deliberate Africa’s common conservation challenges will also take place from August 28 to 29. RDB said it is committed to continuing to leverage on platforms such as Kwita Izina, by joining hands with experts in conservation to ensure the long-term sustainability of an endangered species. Gorilla tourism remains the backbone of Rwanda’s tourism and conservation sector. Since the first Kwita Izina in 2005, some 239 mountain baby gorillas have been named, according to RDB. Rwanda will also have a domestic tourism campaign following Kwita Izina. A mini draw promotion will be held on July 4, where winners will be get an opportunity to visit the gorillas in November. Related :   As Rwanda welcomes conservationists from around the world to celebrate 10 years of Kwita Izina on July 1, the country will also be celebrating its status as the biggest beneficiary of mountain gorilla trekking in the Virunga mountains. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.