The Yao restaurant is bringing a new take on Asian fusion cooking to Nairobi. Their selection of meals draws from classic Southeast Asian dishes and popular roadside food. Located opposite the United Nations complex in Gigiri, the low roofed restaurant is in an open courtyard surrounded by pagoda-like buildings and has a serene ambience. Two options from the Pan-Asian Yao menu are the Bento trays and hot pot menu. The Bento Box is a classic Japanese tradition of takeaway meals packed into disposable boxes or inside elaborately decorated containers for in-house dining. Yao has redefined the Bento Box into a quick-serve lunch tray that makes for a fast, filling meal. From the Bento menu one can choose Malaysian, Indonesian, Chinese and Indian cuisine in both vegetarian for Ksh800 ($8) and non-vegetarian at Ksh1,000 ($10). Each Bento tray includes a soup, a salad, a main course accompanied by rice or noodles, and a specialty sauce. I liked the Indonesian Bento tray that has a clear Sayur Asem soup, Gado Gado salad with fried tofu cubes, Nasi Goreng rice, spicy chicken skewers and a chilli peanut sauce. The Indian Bento tray has a clear tomato Shorba soup with a tangy flavour, Tawa Chicken, a popular roadside meal that is cooked on large metal pans, Kachumbari and a mint chutney. Vegetarians can opt for the vegetable biryani and paneer cheese instead of Tawa Chicken. READ: Thai-Indian fusion at dusitd2 Nairobi Communal dining Hot pot meals are a style of communal dining found in many Asian countries, and are comparable to European fondue cooking. A pot of bubbling soup on a burner is placed on the dining table accompanied by fresh ingredients to be cooked in the soup.   The Yao Restaurant tables have built in glass-top electric burners. The hot pot menu, ranging from Ksh1,200 ($12) to Ksh2,000 ($20), includes a choice of a soup, seafood, meats, vegetables, sauce and noodles.There is a method to hot pot dining. First, all the raw vegetables, seafood and sliced meat are set on the table. The hot soup is placed on the burners, served in ornate tin cans with lids adorned with a carved lion. I chose a mildly spicy Beijing broth — a clear soup with ginger and spring onion. The Tonyu Nabe soup is the vegan option with soya milk and miso paste. People who like chilli will enjoy the lemon grass-flavoured Tom Yum soup and the Sichuan broth. Each diner selects their fresh ingredients and puts them into the bubbling broth, three minutes for vegetables and longer for the meat. While waiting for the food to cook, we used the small side bowl to mix our sauces from a 14 options such as chilli peanut, coriander and cumin, tamarind and the Japanese ginger ponzu dressing. In addition to the fresh bok choy cabbage and shitake mushrooms, I enjoyed the vegetables that were new to my palate such as the fried lotus stems, black tofu and bamboo shoots. The squid, crab clam and sliced lamb were my favourite from the meat options. READ: French cuisine in Nairobi Cocktails Yao has a wide selection of cocktails. I opted for a slightly sweet rosé wine to complement the chilli flavours of the food. After a few rounds of cooking and eating, we were full but there was still room for Yao’s homemade ice-cream. The Oreo cookie ice-cream with a caramel sauce was delicious. The wasabi ice cream with raisins and nuts had a hint of the pungent horseradish balanced by the sweetness of the other ingredients. Hot pot meals are an enjoyable style of shared dining. Currently Yao can only take 12 guests for hot pot dinners, so advance booking is essential. The restaurant will soon feature a dim sum menu of Chinese steamed buns and dumplings in bite-size portions filled with a meat and vegetables.   “When president Kikwete came to Jamaica in 2010, he invited Jamaicans to invest in Tanzania,” Velisa said. She heeded the call. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.