East African countries have agreed to  remove  the  special treatment given  to “sensitive goods”  and  impose a Common External Tariff on them starting from July 1, 2018. According to EAC countries, such preferential treatment is not anchored in the law and is stifling intra-regional trade. The region’s Council of Ministers  has also resolved that goods manufactured from raw materials that are granted country-specific duty remission should  attract duties, levies and other charges provided in the existing EAC-CET, effective July 1, 2017. They agreed that removal of frequent stays of applications and duty remissions should inform the comprehensive review of the three-band CET that is expected to be completed in September with an implementation of July 1, 2018. Initially, the revised CET was scheduled to go live on July 1 this year. The Council of Ministers yielded to requests by the partner states to grant special tax to over 80 product lines in the 2017/2018 budgets. Among the goods are raw sugar, wheat, barley, motor vehicles, liquefied petroleum gas cylinders, iron and steel products, crude edible oil, clothes, inputs for the assembly of ships and raw materials and industrial inputs for the manufacture of textile and footwear. READ: Fears of rise in prices after duty remission scheme ends Kenya and Uganda received a stay of application on a duty of 25 per cent instead of 0 per cent on LPG cylinders for a period of one year. Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda were allowed to apply a duty of 25 per cent instead of 10 per cent on road tractors for semi-trailers for one year. Burundi and Uganda will charge duty rate of 10 per cent instead of 25 per cent on buses for transportation for a period of one year while Kenya has been granted duty remission on raw sugar at a duty rate of 0 per cent for one year on condition that the finished product is not sold in the EAC Customs Territory otherwise it will attract duty. READ: Kenya seeks end to EAC import duty exemptions Increased requestsThe EAC Secretariat noted that the increased requests for stays of application are undermining the CET and intra-regional trade. In addition, the stays of application do not have a legal foundation in the EAC Customs law. Tanzania said the increasing requests for stay of applications and duty remissions have defeated the logic of the Customs Union. The list of goods has been expanding and thus creating trade distortions and impeding intra-region trade. The review of the current EAC CET is under way. A team of consultants from the partner states has already endorsed the criteria for the classification and categorisation of goods within the EAC CET. READ: EAC team to review taxes on key goods The ministers for finance in April 2014, decided to do away with stays of applications and directed that a phase out proposal be developed, which was subsequently adopted by Sectoral Council of the ministers of trade, industry, finance and investment in May 2014. According to the EAC Secretariat, the intra-regional trade is declining since 2015, which could be attributed to the increasing restrictions imposed by partner states on country specific stays of application and duty remission. READ: EA to adopt new tax rules to protect region from cheap imports   Tanzania president writes to his Kenyan counterpart, starting a de-escalation process. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.