Rwanda does not anticipate any major disruptions to trade in the event of Kenya’s elections turning violent because the bulk of the country’s international shipping is conducted at the Dar es Salaam port. Francois Kanimba, the Minister of Trade, Industry and East African Affairs said majority of the country’s traders had over the years gradually shifted to importing their goods through the Central Corridor, minimising the likely impact of any disruptions to shipping along the Northern Corridor. “There is no reason for traders to be concerned or for us to take any precautions even if the Kenyan elections take a turn for the worse. Most of our traders are now increasingly using the Dar es Salaam port,” said Mr Kanimba. He said the Northern Corridor had increasingly become more attractive to Rwandan shippers because of a reduction in non-tariff barriers along the route. Dar es Salaam is much closer to Kigali and offers a more natural connection for Rwanda. Also, it is a member of the single customs territory. More than 70 per cent of Rwanda’s cargo goes through the Central Corridor and this is likely to increase in the coming years as the corridor becomes more efficient at the border posts. READ: Ugandan traders turn to Dar port as Kenya polls close in Truck and bus haulers along the central corridor now save up to 78 per cent of weighbridge stoppage time as a result of a recent directive by President John Magufuli allowing transit trucks to stop at only three instead of eight weighbridges on the Tanzanian side. It has been observed that drivers on average now spend only 48 minutes in total at weighbridges between Dar es Salaam port and the borders in Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda, instead of the nearly four hours before President Magufuli’s directive last year. Despite Rwanda preferring the central corridor for its cargo transportation over the Northern Corridor, reports show that the latter is not doing badly either. Rwanda-bound traffic from Mombasa expanded by one per cent in the first quarter of this year, while traffic through the central corridor contracted by 12 per cent. The Northern Corridor serves Kenya, Uganda, South Sudan and parts of Rwanda while the Central Corridor, serves Tanzania, parts of Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Zambia, Malawi and the Democratic Republic of Congo. The average time it used to take containers to be cleared at the Dar es Salaam port was 9.94 days in 2013. This reduced to 7.74 days in 2014 and dropped further to 3.73 days in 2016. READ: Tanzania scoops top position as best route for transit goodsMassive investments like the Dar Port modernisation programme, a $600 million project and the projected 2,000km SGR line connecting Dar es Salaam port to other Central Corridor countries are expected to further increase efficiencies along the Central Corridor. Around 95 per cent of road networks along the Central Corridor are tarmacked and inland ports and waterways have the potential to attract both public and private investments.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.