A journey that started at 5am after a short busy night could have ended in disaster had one passenger, who was travelling to Zanzibar on holiday, succeeded in ditching out of the plane, mid-flight. We arrived at Schiphol airport in Amsterdam mid-morning after a one-and-half hour flight from Genève aeroport, Switzerland, and most in my travel group opted to hang out in the duty free section, shopping for last minute gifts and more importantly, alcohol for immediate consumption and some to carry back home. Seated at a restaurant somewhere, a man, later identified as an electrical engineer from Norway, was quaffing copious amounts of whisky from a bottle of Jonnie Walker, as he also waited for the same KLM flight to Nairobi, which had been delayed by an hour. He was in the company of two Kenyans he had just met at the airport and was generous enough to offer them a bottle of beer each. Being Fly Blue card holders, my two friends and I opted to sample the hospitality of the KLM lounge for at least three hours before catching our flight back to Nairobi. Being mid-morning, we opted for breakfast first, starting with a vegetable soup to heal our bodies from the vagaries of the previous night’s indulgence, but of course after taking a tot teach of our favourite drink. The three-hour stay at the lounge was worthwhile, because all our needs were taken care of and what remained was a nap on the plane. Other members of our delegation and their new found Norwegian friend had just taken the last sips of their drinks and rushed to board the plane. The airline crew noticed something was amiss with the Norwegian man. He seemed too inebriated. They called the head of security to gauge the passenger’s state and if he was fit to travel. The passenger had earlier confessed to his “friends” that this was the first time he had taken alcohol before travelling. In a brief conversation with the head of security, he was cleared fit to fly, but on condition that he will not be served with alcohol until he lands in Nairobi. His wife and children were informed of the agreement, and were asked to make sure there was no breach. Two and a half hours into the flight, when most of the passengers had settled into much needed sleep, the Norwegian engineer decided he needed to take a walk. Out of the plane. He walked down the aisle to the emergency exit, lifted the door handle to open the door and walk out. The passengers on the seats next to the emergency exit were all fast asleep and he was on his third attempt that an alarmed passenger saw him and alerted the crew who tackled him away from the door. He and his family were relocated to a zone where he could be monitored and he was chained him to his seat. Security breachUpon landing in Nairobi, instead of being allowed to catch his connecting flight to Zanzibar, he was handed over to the police. He was detained to “aid with further investigations into the incident.” The lesson here is that alcohol and flying do not mix. Duty free shops, airline lounges and flight cabin service all have tempting offers on alcohol, but passengers have to really think hard before imbibing. During a flight, the pressure in the cabin is lower than outside on ground and it diminishes the body’s ability to absorb oxygen, and because of the lower level of oxygen in your blood, you may seem more drunk in the air than you would on the ground after consuming the same amount of alcohol. You will feel light-headed, also called hypoxia. Therefore, if you drink alcoholic beverages during a flight, you may notice it sooner, and so might the crew and other passengers if you drink too much. A complicating factor is that the air in an aircraft is very dry and, coupled with the diuretic effect of drinking alcohol; you may become dehydrated much faster than you would on the ground. So, to combat dehydration make sure you drink water with every alcoholic beverage. And minimise your intake of salty food, as this may have an adverse effect by making you more thirsty and encouraging you to drink at a faster rate. The safety, security and comfort of passengers and crew are of the highest priority to airlines. Unruly behaviour or acts by passengers, due to alcohol abuse or otherwise, is an infringement of international law. The pilot in command of a flight is authorised to disembark or deliver an unruly passenger to a law-enforcement agency.It’s better to be safe than sorry, therefore drink wisely on an aircraft.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.