As the world prepares to mark the International Day of Peace on September 21, a 44-minute long documentary on the power of music to bring about world peace was released in June, highlighting the work of Prof Kevin Fenton, Ken Wakia and Maureen Obadha. The film focuses on the trio’s travels across Kenya last year in a project dubbed AVoice4Peace. Prof Fenton, a choral music professor at Florida State University (FSU) College of Music, has over the past couple of years organised the project, which challenges choirs across the globe to dedicate one day a year to talk and sing about peace.The documentary features Prof Fenton; Wakia, director of the Nairobi Chamber Chorus and Obadha, soloist and vocal coach at the Nairobi Chamber Chorus. It will be livestreamed on the International Day of Peace as part of a “peace concert.” Documentary The documentary has four parts, offering a rare glimpse into the vibrant and expressive musical culture of Kenya and illustrating the meaningful contribution of the three musicians. It explores the areas of international musical collaboration, the global refugee crisis, socio-economic challenges and cultural differences that can trigger conflict, and the idea that peace begins and ends with the individual. It also seeks to teach that violence does not occur in a vacuum; that it’s in the little decisions we make every day. Besides music, the documentary captures the landscape, wildlife and urban terrain through where the trio travel — villages in Kenya’s Masai Mara National Reserve, Nairobi’s Kibera slum and the Kakuma Refugee Camp. In the Masai Mara, they discover the colourful and vibrant musical culture of the Maasai and the role of music in cultural ceremonies and everyday life. In Kibera, they find joy brought on by music despite the challenges of poverty and the realities of the day-to-day life in one of Kenya’s urban slums. At the Nairobi Chamber Chorus, the trio lead a performance of the South African traditional hymn Ukuthula, (peace in siZulu.) Wakia and Obadha then travel to the Kakuma Refugee Camp in northern Kenya to teach Ukuthula to a refugee choir of four hundred young people, who despite their situation are devoted peacemakers. Okello, a South Sudanese refugee and member of the Kakuma Refugee Chorus, says: “When I heard the song for the first time I said I’ll do it, because I wanted the whole world to hear me sing about peace.” “Whenever we sing Ukuthula I feel tears coming into my eyes. It never sounds the same,” Wakia says. Children and adults in more than 60 choirs around the world — Tallahassee’s Kate Sullivan Elementary School in Florida, US; in Dublin, Ireland; Seattle, Canada; Tokyo, Japan; Alpharetta, Georgia, US; Kakuma in Kenya and Johnson, Vermont in the US — featured in a livestream during last year’s peace day. The documentary got special recognition at the Madrid International Film Festival, and Prof Fenton said it was timely because of the war and suffering around the world. “If you see what’s going on around the world, you feel like we need music now more than ever before. I’ve never thought of a better way to heal the world than through music,” Wakia says. Obadha, a Fulbright scholar, says that every community in Africa uses music for victories, losses, funerals and weddings. “There are so many things that we could have forgotten in our cultures or misinterpreted but you can only find them if you go into the music, and then you understand why they happened. "I think we can take that step farther and expound on it and make it something we are proud of, and not something that divides us,” she says. The film is available for viewing at www.avoice4peace.org/film, and is sponsored by the US embassy in Nairobi and directed by FSU graduate Bud Simpson.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.