Artists living in Kenya are taking a stand to protect the natural world through a group exhibition called Artists Against Extinction. On show at the Polka Dot Art Gallery until July 23, the collection of paintings, photographs and three-dimensional pieces celebrates nature. The initiative is the brainchild of Ugandan-born painter Karen Laurence-Rowe, who donates some of her paintings to conservation groups. Working in oils and acrylics, she has a large evocative image of four elephants against a dusky blue sky. Patrick Kinuthia is known for his figurative images of women. But in this exhibition, he paints landscapes of remote areas of Kenya that are facing increasing pressure from human and livestock encroachment. Eric Gitonga uses his lens to draw our attention to small animals like spiders and insects. On display are blown-up photographs of insects he observed in Laikipia County. Guveer Sira uses his photographic art to teach people who have never been on safari on the importance of conservation. On display is a pair of his black and white head photo-portraits of a lion and an elephant. Also from Kenya are photographs by safari guide and wildlife photographer Teeku Patel. Davina Dobie has scaled down from her typically large, scenic paintings to illustrations of bees and other small animals. Priya Shah of the clothing brand Mia Kora displays scarves of wildlife art. Inside a tall white display cabinet are bronze animal sculptures by Kimani Kiare. Working from a foundry just outside of Nairobi, Kiarie has forged a collection of detailed herbivores and carnivores. One of the most captivating paintings is by Kenyan-based British painter Sophie Walbeoffe, of an elephant in mixed media of ashes and deadwood. Gallery director Lara Ray hopes that the exhibition will “encourage the viewer to re-engage with nature through the art.” Twenty per cent of proceeds will go to the Kenya Wildlife Trust, Big Life Foundation and Amboseli Trust for Elephants.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.