The incoming East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) faces tough tasks, including formulation of institutional review, financial accountability of member states, raising more funds and clearance of pending bills.Former members who talked to this paper have reiterated their priorities for the assembly, which for the first time will be under a Rwandan speakers when it opens in September. This assembly — the fourth since Rwanda joined in 2007 — has been on hold pending nomination of representatives from both Kenya, currently in an election period, and the newly adopted member, South Sudan, whose representatives had earlier been recalled by its government. READ: EALA in limbo over Kenya, South Sudan MPs Former Rwanda member to EALA Odette Nyiramirimo, said the challenges ahead for the assembly can still be overcome. “In the past two assemblies, when I was a member, the road has been bumpy but worth it. I can say that it was like a school,” she said. “Working in the commonwealth system having grown up in the francophone system, we needed time to adopt. There were some strange practices like banging tables as a form of applause, I mean that is not how we used to do things, but we got used.” Nyiramirimo talked of different surprises in the concluded legislative session, like the tenure of Margaret Zziwa, and financial uncertainty. Ms Zziwa’s impeachment was difficult for some Rwandan members of EALA, who cheered her leadership, not only because of her skills, but because they admired the gender equality her tenure represented. READ: Zziwa: EALA broke most of its own rules “We had a challenge of liquidity in the whole community and some member states delayed disbursement of their contributions,” Nyiramirimo added. She said the delays in disbursement will require follow up by the  upcoming assembly with the support of the secretariat, mostly applying provisions of the treaty. Nyiramirimo further stated that there will be a need to rework the institutional review process, which has been pending for the past 10 years.Other challenges are the full implementation of the Common Market. According to lawmakers, free movement of people and goods in the region is not yet a reality. READ: Why MPs have ganged up to kick out EALA Speaker Zziwa “Political federation today is an untouchable subject, because if people don’t let EAC residents move freely, how do you think they will like to have one state as a federation?” she added.The outgoing assembly has adopted and enacted 31 Bills, 90 reports and 67 resolutions. Critics believe a lot of pressure could have been exerted to member states for the outgoing assembly to have designed a clear roadmap on financial inclusion in the region despite little hope for a politically unified community. Political science professor Charles Gasasira, who is in charge of research at the University of Rwanda, said the speaker of the assembly should prepare for a hard task ahead but, more importantly, tap into the country’s experience when dealing with hard issues. “Although we have seen lack of co-operation among some member states, having a Rwandan as the speaker of the assembly means quite heavy responsibility,” he said. READ: A full in tray awaits presidents at EAC summit   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.