Kigali has seen a rise in regional and international hotel and restaurant chains. These restaurant and lounge chains are filling the need brought about by increased emigration of foreign nationals and expatriates into the country to visit, work and live. Riders Lounge, a regional luxury chain opened its doors in Kigali last month. It is the fourth outlet in the region, and the first in Rwanda. The lounge is located on the second floor of Kigali Heights, an upscale development in the upmarket Kimihurura area just across the road from the Radisson Blue Hotel and the Kigali Convention Centre. The black, grey and red leather seats with the wall murals of Harley Davidson’s motorcycles makes it ideal as a bikers hangout. I was impressed by the hospitality at Riders. The service is fast and efficient. The food menu is detailed, with accompanying drink suggestions for every meal. The restaurant offers breakfasts, salads, soups, starters and bites, platters, main courses and desserts.   A grilled tilapia pili pili was my choice, as it’s one of Riders specials. It is spiced tilapia fillet served with chips and summer coleslaw. The thinly-cut long masala chips were hot and soft with a bit of crunch. The spicy tilapia fillet was tender, though slightly greasy, but still delicious. For vegetarians, entrée options include pasta pesto, carbonara and vegetable stir fry served with a side dish of either chips, garden salad, creamy mashed potatoes or steamed rice. The price range for the main course options is Rwf7,000 ($8.4) to Rwf22,000 ($26.5). The restaurant also offers Indian dishes like chicken makhani, palak paneer and vegetable curries. They have an executive bar with an wide choice of beverages; soft drinks, fresh juices, local and imported beers, ciders, wines, sparkling champagne, aperitifs, gins, vodkas with premium and deluxe whiskeys and cocktails. The drinks menu explains the different types of drinks with descriptions of their ingredients and their recommended pairings.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.