African economies could suffer an employment crisis as early as 2040 unless governments invest and prepare the youth for the fourth industrial revolution. Speaking at the “Youth Connekt” Summit, which concluded on July 20 in Kigali, economists said governments needed to create access to affordable IT infrastructure for their youth, to prepare them for a future where economies will be driven by artificial intelligence. As many as two billion jobs could be at stake by 2040 globally, as robots and other sophisticated digital systems take up a larger role in production. With a growing population of young people, there is a need to train and prepare them on these changes. In the absence of such training, they will lose out on chances to create and embrace jobs of the future. Describing what he termed as the “Demographic Dividend,” former African Development Bank (AFDB) president Donald Kaberuka, said there was a need to gear education systems towards a more digital economy. “Africa will have to lead in the disruption of the education models of the past, and that begins by investing in technology; making the Internet widely accessible, cheaper; and opening up digital eco-systems so that people can train themselves and learn new things for the future,” he said. While many believe robots will mainly affect demand for labour by the industrial and service sectors, other professions like accountancy, law and medicine will also be heavily affected. READ: Thinking computers are coming friends, be sharp sharp Citing an example from the US, Dr Kaberuka said that half of Goldman Sachs equity traders have today been laid off to give room for algorithm and other artificial intelligence systems, yet these jobs used to be done by people with Masters of Business Administration (MBA). “The challenge we now face is making sure the young people are trained on the jobs of the future, not the jobs of the past,” said Dr Kaberuka. He said that high unemployment rates have seen an increase in the number of dependants of productive age in many African economies, unlike in America and Europe where dependents are normally pensioners and children. On the other hand without action now, Africa will in the near future be faced with the twin challenges of massive urbanisation and a digital deficit due to lack of required infrastructure. Recent history suggests that it is not too late for Africa to adapt to the future according to Dr Kaberuka. The continent has leapfrogged in different areas like mobile telephony and financial inclusion and so dealing with the upcoming changes should not be a big problem. Rwanda was used as an example of a country that has registered high levels of sustained economic growth despite being landlocked and not having reserves of natural resources. READ: Rwanda has made rapid progress; soon, its people will be happy   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.