Mr Odinga has likened the election to a war, saying sex before the day warriors go to battle is a bad omen that could result in defeat. It was not the first time the Orange Democratic November leader was discouraging sex at polls. During the official launch of Nasa campaigns in Kakamega on June 3, Mr Odinga told his supporters to wait until after the election to enjoy celebratory sex. National Super Alliance presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga has renewed his calls to voters to abstain from sex on the eve of the General Election. Mr Odinga has likened the election to a war, saying sex before the day warriors go to battle is a bad omen that could result in defeat. ABSTAIN “We are going into a war and we must fully conserve our energies before the day of battle which is August 8,” he said in Homa Bay, in western Kenya, on Monday. “None of us should have sex on the eve of the polls.” He especially asked men to abstain from sex, saying it would result in some of them failing to vote on August 8. Women, he said, should not consent to lovemaking with their husbands on the night of August 7. “All women should deny their husbands conjugal rights on the eve of voting,” he said. VIGILANCE “This will ensure that we wake up early to vote and remain vigilant throughout the day until the results are tallied and announced.” It was not the first time the Orange Democratic Movement leader was discouraging sex at polls. During the official launch of Nasa campaigns in Kakamega, also in western Kenya, on June 3, Mr Odinga told his supporters to wait until the results of the poll are announced to enjoy celebratory sex. “Dear ladies, tell your men to hold their horses until after the election and then you can have sex to celebrate our victory,” he said to the amusement of the crowd. DISTRACTION He also made a similar call during a June 23 campaign tour of in Bungoma County in western Kenya. In Homa Bay, Mr Odinga said August 7 and August 8 are days men should not sleep in their beds. “Young men will sleep outside the house. When the day comes, no man should sleep with a woman,” he told the crowd in Dholuo. He urged his supporters to wake up early and desist from activities likely to distract them from voting. MISHI MBOKO "If he moves closer to you, don't even look at him. Tell him we have a war to fight. Let us have intercourse after we get the presidency," he said in his mother tongue. Mr Odinga is not the first politicia