There seems to be no end in sight to persistent delays in salaries for lecturers at the University of Rwanda (UR). Lecturers who spoke on condition of anonymity told this paper that salaries have been coming at least a month late since last December. For example. it was not until Wednesday that May salaries checked into the accounts. The Ministry of Education puts the blame at the door of UR, saying the university does not run on internally generated income. “We have been surviving on soft loans, but even those are proving expensive to pay back. Those of us with bank loans are in a worse position because servicing them is getting too costly due to bank fines for late payment,” one lecturer said. Another lecturer added: “Most lecturers are now living in debt. Their production is low because they are physically teaching but mentally elsewhere.” Lecturers posted at NUR’s biggest campus in Huye in the Southern Province, said they had lobbied the administration for answers to no avail. READ: Rwanda, Tanzania pay highest for lecturers Minister for Education, Dr Papias Musafiri, acknowledged the lateness in salaries to the university’s six campuses, which boast a total of 1450 academic staff.“UR had exhausted its budget before the budget year ended. This is due to the fact that it did not meet the target of internally generated income,” he said. “The way forward is that the government has significantly increased the budget share for 2017/18. The university has also restructured operations to increase efficiency. It has also reasonably projected its own revenues in a realistic way.” The university’s administration was not available for comment by press time, including the vice-chancellor chief executive officer, Prof Philip Cotton, and the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Administration and Finance, Mr Pudence Rubingisa. The university has undergone a couple of restructurings in the past, and is undergoing another one currently that is expected to end in August. The restructuring will see some of its campuses merged to reduce management costs and improve the quality of education it offers. READ: Concern raised over standards of Rwanda colleges Rwanda has made critical investment in the education sector over the years, and has seen an increased share of the national budget allocated to the education sector from 17 per cent in 2012 to 22 per cent in 2017. READ: Rwandan colleges still lack modern facilities   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.