These are exciting times for East African travellers, not because flying is about to or has become significantly cheaper, but became governments are finally realising the importance of having modern airports, airfields and other services. In Kenya alone, the Kenya Airports Authority has rolled out an ambitious plan of upgrading airstrips and expanding airports and their airstrip facilities across the country. KAA has just commissioned the Isiolo International Airport, 250km northeast of Nairobi and upgrading works are ongoing in other airports. The same is happening in neighbouring Ethiopia, Tanzania and Uganda, with Rwanda throwing in a brand new airport 40 kilometres south of Kigali at Bugesera. Better airport facilities near you means more airline operators and therefore more options for travellers. Over the past 24 months, there has been a gradual and significant increase in the number of seats offered by airlines to destinations in the region. Beyond the buildings While most airport improvement works so far have been on extending runways and modernising the terminal buildings to handle bigger aircraft and more passengers, amenities such as waiting lounges, restaurants, walk ways between terminals, shops, availability of Wi-Fi, working areas and many more services also improve the airport experience. If you are a first or business class passenger or just a frequent flyer, chances are that your airline of choice will have a lounge access pass ready for you at check-in. However, for economy class passengers, who form the bulk of the flyers, there is often little offered by airlines beyond the open waiting areas or boarding gates with cold metal seats to wait for the boarding call. During peak transit hours, main airport terminals can be rather hectic for those passengers looking for a bit of tranquillity and rest as they wait for their next flight. Contrary to the perception of exclusivity, there are multiple lounges at these airports — run by airlines or contracted companies — that offer peace and quiet work areas to all guests regardless of their class of travel. A traveller starting their journey from or transiting through any of the regional hubs does not have to stay in the open waiting areas even if travelling in economy class, particularly when looking for a quiet rest or work spot. Like the lounges found at key transit hubs elsewhere, these lounges can be booked in advance or on the spot at a nominal fee and will usually have better amenities than the airline-operated lounges. While they may not offer flat beds and full hot meals as you would find in a hotel near the airport, lounges make suitable waiting or rest areas for travellers with money to spare for light snacks, beverages and phone charging points. Review and book Holding a valid travel document, ticket and boarding pass are among the items required by many lounges to grant access to travellers. It is important to review available lounges ahead of travel so that you can choose and book a lounge according to your needs and the facilities available. For instance, several lounges will offer at an extra fee, quiet zones, family rooms, sleeping pods, spa treatment over and above the complimentary services included in the access fee. If you are going to frequent certain airports it does work in your favour to be a member of a specific lounge as it could guarantee access to partner lounges across the globe. Regardless of the choice, whether in the region or at other international hubs, most lounges will have a strict dress code. Furthermore, just as with airlines and hotels, lounges reserve the right of admission whether one has paid for access or not, to maintain a certain level of decorum for the sake of all lounge users. A big advantage of signing up for lounge access is that in case of a flight delay, one is guaranteed a longer stay at no extra cost. Michael Otieno an aviation consultancy based in Nairobi. Twitter: @mosafariz; E-mail: me@michaelotieno.com   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.