Antonio Nshimiyimana, 37, is going places. With him, his brush, whose reach and effect are seen clearly in the artist’s new collection, aptly named My Expression. In the exhibition of his works that opened on June 16 to close on July 6, are over 30 paintings. The artist captures the imagination of many. To start with, is the scenery it creates, as the paintings adorn the walls of Kigali’s Innovation village, where this exhibition is taking place. Nshimiyimana undoubtedly stirs his way into mastery. The exhibition captures the visible and invisible nature of humanity, which the artist portrays through figurative human images. Just as a core believer and one of the few, who practices realism art, Nshimiyimana relates to his core touch of closely depicting realism through this series. This collection features mostly semi-abstract and a few abstract images, depicting emotions. Unlike his last two solo exhibitions Coiffure traditionnel (2005) and Eyes Can Tell (2015), which incorporated the use of acrylics and oil paints, while also using pastels on canvas, My Expression is comprised of oil pastels and pigments, which he lays in canvas. Similar to Eyes Can Tell, the artist uses images of a woman throughout. To him, a woman is the perfect subject to best reveal emotions. “A woman holds vast emotions, which I believe describe humanity to the fullest. These are what I pass on through colour,” explains Nshimiyimana. The flow of emotions is depicted through his use of colours, and more still, is toning, and presentation of his subjects. Nshimiyimana refrains from using brighter colours, since he believes that brighter colours tend to lure the audience from meditation of the theme, which is the artists’ core motive. He narrows down to specific body parts like the face, fingers, chest region, legs and feet, which he tints to acknowledgement. The works illustrate pride, sensation, beauty, resilience, trust, strength among other abilities carried through emotions. One of the pieces entitled Le signe du bleu, an 80cm by 100cm painting is entirely out of blue colours, which flow from the midpoint, where a half covered face of a woman is seen as if peeping out for hope or in pursuit of peace (blue colour).   The artist also shows the relationship between humanity and nature, through To peut pas Échappe, a figurative painting depicting human journey, from the past (background), to the future (foreground). Imbuto y’igihe, a 100cm by cm piece depicts several hands holding each other, in comfort, just like guidance. Closely, are little flowers sprouting from the background, an indication of the power of a firm guidance. Other paintings like Pouce toi!, Liberté de soleil among others which depict parts like the breast, waist, thigh, celebrate the beauty of the African female body, not as any image, but as a foundation of African roots and faith.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.