Getty T Ambau’s book, Desta and King Solomon’s Coin of Magic and Fortune Vol 1, is a family tale set in the beautiful countryside of Ethiopia in the 1950s. The story spans three generations, in a world of monkeys, goats and spirits. Seven-year old Desta has just one dream — to climb up the nearby mountains, touch the sky and feel the clouds. Desta’s father Abraham has never lost hope of finding his own father, who disappeared under mysterious circumstances some 40 years ago. Abraham also wants to solve the mystery of a vanished heirloom that caused the family to leave their ancestral land. Neither realises that the two quests are intertwined. Desta is a precocious child who asks many questions and is prone to day-dreaming. Nobody believes him when he says he was visited by a ghost that had an important message for the family. His mother thinks her youngest child is possessed by a sheytan (evil spirit) and hires a priest to exorcise it. His brothers are angry at him because the prophecy will disorganise the carefully laid plans for their inheritance. Abraham becomes even more distant in the face of a new dilemma. Desta seeks refuge in the fields where he tends the family’s livestock. Only his sister Hibist shows him any tenderness. Ambau tackles superstitions, taboos and cultural codes of conduct. The book has detailed descriptions of rural life, traditional cooking, and the Ethiopian countryside, drawn from the author’s childhood memories. However, Ambau is prone to repeating events and descriptions that make the story drag on unnecessarily. The narrative is bilinear, told alternatively by Desta and Abraham, yet easy to follow. Sometimes the dialogue feels stiff and formal, and there are instances when Desta sounds more like a grow-up than a child speaking. Ambau seamlessly harmonises both traditional practices and the rituals of the Ethiopian Christian church in a way typical of many African societies. The fabled 2,800-year-old gold coin that allegedly goes back to the biblical King Solomon and Queen Sheba adds mystery to the historical part of the story. The story is a saga of determination, hardship and holding on to dreams, written in the style of magical realism. The book won the Independent Publishers Children Book Award in 2011, and the Moonbeam’s Young Adult Book Award in 2014. Born in Ethiopia, Ambau is a long-time resident of the US with a background in science research. This is the first book of the Desta series.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.