Nigerian First Lady Aisha Muhammadu Buhari has left for London to visit her ailing husband amidst controversy surrounding the extent of the president's ailment. Mrs Buhari left Abuja on Sunday to visit the Nigerian leader who has been on medical vacation since  May 7. President Buhari handed over the control of Nigerian to his deputy Prof Yemi Osinbajo on his departure. The First lady last visited on May 30 and returned June 6, with reports of President Buhari’s appreciation of the prayers by Nigerians for his quick recovery. Symbolic appearance According to her itinerary, Mrs Buhari was expected to stop over in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, to make a symbolic appearance at the meeting of the Organisation of African First Ladies Against HIV/Aids (OAFLA) on Monday. She would also join other members to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the organisation, and use the opportunity to re-affirm Nigeria's voting rights in the upcoming OAFLA elections. The Nigerian Frist lady would then continue her journey to the UK on Tuesday. Was gravely ill Meanwhile, the  health of President Buhari has continued to generate controversy, forcing the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to assure the nation that he was recovering robustly. The APC report followed the claims by Ekiti State Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose, that the president was gravely ill. Mr Fayose claimed early last week that President Buhari had brain damage and speech impairment and was on life support. But APC national chairman John Odigie-Oyegun said President Buhari was fast recovering from his illness. Very robust The APC chief gave an update on President Buhari's health at the end of the party's National Working Committee (NWC) and the state governors elected on the party’s platform in Abuja. “We are glad to inform you that president Buhari is recovering in a very robust manner. We hope he takes it easy and when he comes back, I have no doubt at all that we will have a new and active period of activities, ” he said. Mr Odigie-Oyegun further said that it was only the doctors who could give the date for the return of President Buhari to Nigeria.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.