Amanda’s brow creased as she quickly glanced at her rear-view mirror. Her eyes darted back to the traffic in front of her and she resumed her calm, nonchalant demeanour. “Mummy, I’m going swimming today,” the rambunctious five-year-old in the passenger’s seat beside her said, “and we’re going to have a race!”“Oh wow, honey,” Amanda replied, smiling warmly at her daughter, “you’ll have so much fun!” The little girl went on about various swimming escapades, her excitement palpable as the traffic began to flow and they turned into the road leading to her kindergarten. Listening to the chirpy sounds of her daughter, Amanda smiled and kept up a string of “Uh-huh” and “Oh, really?” without really hearing a single word being said. Her hands gripped the steering wheel tightly, whiteness of her knuckles and jerky motions as she changed gears the only sign that something was wrong. As they pulled up outside the kindergarten, Amanda kissed her daughter on the forehead before handing her over to the teacher who supervised the morning drop-off. Exhaling slowly as she drove away, Amanda shifted in her seat and flexed her hands on the steering wheel. Then she once again glanced at the rear-view mirror, inhaled deeply and stepped on the accelerator. *****George had been trailing Amanda since she’d left her home to drop her daughter off at school. He had strict instructions not to let this prosecutor make it to court. Amanda was speeding off, trying to get away from him. Instinctively, he stepped on the accelerator as far as it would go. The chase was on. Amanda wasn’t afraid. Her fear was reserved for her daughter, who was now safe. She was anxious, but not afraid. Yanking her handbrake as she came to an intersection, she didn’t let up on the accelerator and maneuvered expertly back into the main road. The mid-morning traffic had now begun to move, and Amanda forced her way through, swerving this way and that with more than a few near misses. In the black car behind her, George was gathering his wits, clumsily entering the intersection to the blaring of horns and then struggling to keep up with his target; who was now exiting the main road onto a less busy slip road. “Ha!” George said triumphantly, “I’ve got her now.” As soon as Amanda exited the main road, she whispered a prayer as she recalled very nook, every last bend, every bump and every intersection along the winding slip road. She’d driven here for years, heck she’d pretty much learnt to drive on this road. Steeling herself, she shifted once more in her seat, her posture defensive and alert — ready. The moment the car lurched forward, it was as if her senses were taken over, memory and instinct guiding her movements. George maneuvered through the last few cars before the exit, hooting his horn and jerking on his brakes as he almost plowed into a vehicle. Cursing in frustration, he reached the exit just in time to see Amanda’s car disappearing round a bend. It was a sunny morning and the warm sun rays broke through the tree canopies in the quiet neighbourhood streets, the silence broken suddenly by the roaring of car engines at full throttle, first one then another. George had no time to notice the perfection of the morning. He was preoccupied with the fact that it seemed he could fail on an assignment he’d scoffed at. He was a man for hire, and one of the best ones, so his reputation was on the line. Beads of sweat formed on his brow as he focused on trying to keep up and navigate the narrow road with its twists, dips and sudden bumps. Amanda was getting away, but then she suddenly stopped her car. Wasting no time, George ploughed ahead, exhilaration already swelling in his chest. Amanda glanced up at the rear-view mirror, her heart racing. The black car was gaining on her. She had stopped to let an old lady cross the road. Resisting the urge to hoot, she waited until the old woman had cleared the front of her car, before revving her engine and starting to speed off again. Just as she did so, a loud bang followed by the shattering of glass behind her caused her to swerve sharply in shock, but her reflexes quickly righted the car and her foot remained on the accelerator. George had fired at her, his frustration driving him to his wits end. But instead of making her lose control, his actions had motivated her even more. Amanda drove even more wildly and faster until she came to a junction that would lead her back to the main road. The court was minutes away, but there was traffic and she had to stop and negotiate her way through. “This is it…” George said as he aimed at her and fired repeatedly. But, Amanda had ducked down the minute she saw his car come up behind her. Realising there was only one thing to do, she kicked off her shoes, grabbed her slim briefcase from the backseat and jumped out of the car just as George fired the second shot. Then she ran down the street towards the court. ******“Where is the prosecution? I will not accept tardiness in my court!” the judge said. “I’m here!” Amanda’s called out, “My apologies your honour, I was held up,” she said, glancing smugly at the defendant who was now shifting nervously in his seat.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.