Every profession demands commitment, diligence and personal sacrifice of those who wish to rise to the top. This is not different for hotel management and catering. Peace Nankunda Butera, the executive sous chef (second in command) at the Kampala Serena Hotel is the epitome of these qualities and today, she is counted as one of the top chefs in Uganda. The Kampala Serena being a premier hotel hosts high profile visitors and Butera’s work is to prepare private meals, banquets and luncheons to international standards. Some of the personalities she has served include former president Bill Clinton and his family, Queen Elizabeth II of England, His Highness the Aga Khan, numerous African heads of state, famous international footballers and US televangelist Benny Hinn. The dish that she loves preparing for guests is the grilled king prawns on shell. “When grilled and served with lemon butter sauce, this dish is out of this world. Most of the international guests that I have prepared this dish for have loved it, and Uganda being a landlocked country, guests don’t expect to find fresh sea food at the Kampala Serena Hotel.” Background Growing up, Butera’s family knew that she enjoyed cooking, but it was after her secondary school that her guardian, who had returned from a long stay in England, advised her to take up a career in hotel management and catering. “Having lived in Europe, he knew that chefs were respected and paid well,” she says. So she joined and graduated from the Uganda College of Commerce Nakawa (now Makerere University Business School) with a diploma in hotel management and catering in 1992. She worked at the Nile Hotel (now Kampala Serena Hotel) in 1993 as a trainee for three months. She excelled and the hotel employed her. When the Serena Hotels group took over Nile Hotel in 2004, Butera was among the few lucky staff members to be retained. She has had the privilege of working in 10 Serena units in five African countries as well as attending several professional courses and trainings at a number of five star establishments in South Africa and Turkey. Not so easy... Butera is however quick to say that being a chef is not easy. First, the professional kitchen has predominantly been a preserve of male chefs. but she says determination and staying power saw her break through the glass ceiling. “It is not an easy profession for women because it takes up your day and night since hotels run 24-hours a day. As a mother, you have very many personal competing demands and you have to balance this with professional demands. When I started off, I was the only female at the hotline (saucier), where all hot dishes are cooked. Most women prefer the pastry or cold section where