With the vibrancy in local music, next up is talent promotion platforms aimed at nurturing aspiring and growing musicians. I’m the Future is one such initiative out to search talent and bring hope to musicians, and the entire music sector. Under the organisation of Future Records in partnership with Miracle Transporter Ltd, I’m the Future is hoped to unearth talented and aspiring acts, then nurture them . The search, which is targeting 30 districts countrywide, is divided into two phases, where 18 sites are chosen for a music performance tour, then the top 36 contestants will be incorporated into a musical academy for mentorship and selection. The overall winner will be awarded Rfw15,000,000 ($17,880) while the runner-up will get Rfw7,000,000 ($8,344). READ: Where has all the hip-hop disappeared to? The search, which kicked off on June 23 with Nyarugenge, Gasabo and Kicukiro in Kigali, will continue for six weeks across Eastern, Western, Southern and Northern provinces. After paying a registration fee of Rfw 5,000 ($6) contestants will have to prove their worth in the presence of a four-man jury made up of of vocal specialists and music producers. “The idea of registration is to motivate true aspiring talents to endeavour to join this initiative,” explains Cherry Uwase, who is part of the organising committee. “This event targets all youth confident that they possess talent and wish to nurture it,” explains Nicholas Ishimwe, who is part of the jury. This is an annual event, open to any aspiring, or growing musician with hopes of promoting their career. The talent search will work hand in hand with district administrations and authorities, where contestants come from. “We realise how together with local authorities, smooth live search events can be attained,” explains Primitive Mukeshimana, administrator at Miracle Transporter Ltd. With emphasis on vocal ability, creativity, originality, control, techniques, entrepreneurial ability and innovative skills, the three-man jury of Aime Uwimana, David Tuyishimire, Nicholas Ishimwe and Cherry Uwase will evaluate all contestants. The first phase will end in July, where top winners from each district will be awarded an audio and visual production contract. READ: Artistes quitting music over no pay, incentives Sponsorship Mrs Mukeshimana said this project will run on a huge budget, currently funded by Miracle Transporter Ltd. However, the event’s organisers are wary seeking sponsorship, lest it alters the initial motive. “From close observation, we realise how most potential sponsors tend to front their interests, which suppress the actual event’s goal, so we are cautious about this,” she added. Mrs Mukeshimana said the competition welcomes partners to it, since there is still a gap for facilitation of its day to day running. Overtime, similar platforms have risen to serve related motives, though most are short-lived. Among competitions still prevailing is the Primus Guma Guma music completion, an annual music competition, though it only targets upcoming and already established artistes. “We really need more of these platforms, as they avail us with exposure, on top of nurturing our careers,” explains Arnold Kabera, an upcoming musician. READ: Guma Guma show launches live performances   Nomination to prestigious music contests offer artistes an opportunity to widen their fan base Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.