Clearance of new vehicle imports to Rwanda is back to normal after two weeks of disruption due to what Rwanda Revenue Authority termed an Interpol system that is designed to curb cross-border crimes. There was a failure in the interface between the Customs system and Interpol’s i-24/7 system, which temporarily caused vehicle clearance to slow down. “It was not a big problem; I would say that only two per cent of the car importers were affected. Even then, we had an option B, where those who found delays in vehicle clearances would simply call or email us and we solve their challenge right there,” said Raphael Tugirumuremyi, Commissioner for Customs Services Department. “Our Customs systems are working well, but such delays are expected whenever there is a system upgrade.” Police acknowledged the incident saying there had indeed been some delays in vehicle clearance, but that the Interpol system was now up and running normally. READ: High tariffs fail to discourage car imports “There was a disruption in the system, but we managed to fix the problem. It did not affect our joint operation in clearing vehicles. Our experts immediately formed an alternative mechanism to clear vehicles so that importers are not delayed,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police and spokesperson Mr Theos Badege. Vehicle importers reported delays in clearance but said they would be patient. “We know the Interpol system at the border posts that helps to track stolen vehicles or vehicle. Such a system is necessary for our business, so we understand the delays and we can afford to wait a bit longer if necessary,” Joshua Nshuti, the business development manager at Victoria Motors, said. READ: Second-hand cars to get more costly “We were also provided with alternatives in that we managed to import all the seven vehicles on time that we were meant to import over last week.”Last year the system managed to intercept 11 stolen vehicles and made searches on over 26,000 suspected vehicles. This year alone, seven stolen vehicles entering Rwanda were intercepted. They were coming from South Africa, Belgium, Poland, Italy, France, Kenya and three from Japan. READ: VW to launch ride hailing in Rwanda as part of Africa expansion   Value of formal exports expanded by 6.1 per cent against a 2.4 per cent drop in formal imports Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.