Kenya has constituted an inter-ministerial committee to identify, within three weeks, modalities of compensating landowners affected by mining of fluorspar in Kerio Valley in the North Rift. The committee needs to identify owners of land used in Elgeyo Marakwet County by Kenya Fluorspar Company (KFC) at Kimwarer near Eldoret town to be compensated by government. The inter-ministerial committee is addressing historical injustices, access to public roads, pollution, police harassment, destruction of property, labour practices and destruction of cultural burial sites linked to fluorspar mining. The Mining Ministry said the committee will collate data on owners of the area allocated to KFC and recommend a valuation system to be used to compensate people affected by the fluorspar extraction project. READ: Fluorspar mining firm faces fresh hurdles About 9,000 hectares of land allocated over 40 years ago for mining and processing is being re-surveyed for purposes of valuation to enable the committee recommend money and those to qualify for payment. President Uhuru Kenyatta, while on the election campaign trail at Chepkorio said his government had set aside $100 million to compensate landowners. Residents are demanding $100,000 per acre that would mean a disbursement package of at least $900 million. The Committee comprising officials of Attorney-General’s office, ministries of Land, Environment, Mining and the Elgeyo Marakwet County government will prepare report on issues affecting the Kimwarer Sugutek community. Fluorspar ore deposits in Kerio Valley were first discovered in 1967 but landowners were not compensated properly leading to complaints from locals. “Compensation of affected land owners was not done fully. The land valuation was improperly conducted as some people were paid as little as $5 over 20 years. This government wants to correct the injustice,” said Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu. The state-owned Fluorspar Company of Kenya (FCK) was established in 1971 to exploit the mineral and