As more Africans travel around the continent, and the travel industry registers growth, Nigeria’s online travel agent, Wakanow, has set base in East Africa to serve the region. Established in 2008, it has grown to be the country’s leading travel booking company. “Waka” means ‘move’ in. The language and the name summarises the founders’ dream of getting more Africans travelling on the continent and around the world through affordable and convenient travel arrangements. “I am particularly delighted at the prospect of bringing our travel expertise tailored for the African traveller to East Africa,” said co-founder and Group managing director, Obinna Ekezie, at the official launch at a Nairobi hotel. The company’s key tenets are to demystify and simplify travel with systems and technology that specifically address the needs of African travellers. This ties in with the African Union’s push for visa-free travel across the continent, and the East African Community’s already in place no passport, visa-free travel. Just like Jumia travel, travellers can use the Wakanow online reservations platform to book flights, holiday packages, hotels, airport transfers and get visa assistance. For the technologically challenged, there are offices for direct booking assistance.The company’s Destinations Africa sells exclusively African holidays. From romantic beach getaways in East Africa and Mauritius, to spectacular riverine wonders of Victoria Falls in Zambia, the floating lodges of the Gambia River, and the Royal Senshi resort along the Volta River in eastern Ghana. One of Wakanow’s most anticipated services is the “Pay Small Small” travel scheme, a flexible method of payment through instalments over six months with a 25 per cent down payment to lock in cheaper advance prices. To reduce the expense and inconvenience of roaming phone charges, Wakanow customers can purchase an international SIM card. Wakanow has offices in Nigeria, Ghana, the UK, US and the UAE. The Kenya regional office will cover East Africa, Ethiopia, Democratic Republic of Congo and Indian Ocean Islands.   Many travellers do not have the full knowledge of the working relationship between travel agencies and airlines. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.