Rwandan civil society will only be able to deploy election observers to half of the sectors in the August 4 presidential polls after suffering a huge funding shortfall. The development could be the most visible indicator yet of the impact of the European Union’s decision not to send observers to the country for the General Election. While the initial plan was to have election monitors across all the 416 sectors in the country and have representatives at every polling station, funding constraints have forced the civil society groups to scale this back to representation in only 208 sectors. Jean-Léonard Sekanyange, the spokesperson of the National Civil Society Platform said they failed to raise the Rwf250 million ($295,700) needed to cover all polling centres after partners turned down their funding proposals. “We had initially planned to have representatives at all polling centres and stations across the country but we decided to change after donors said they had no budget for elections,” said Mr Sekanyange said, adding that this had forced them to revise their budget downwards to Rwf40 million ($47,300). Mr Sekanyange said many foreign donors especially the European Union who had been major funders of civil society organisations, have pulled back this time around. READ: Rwanda is a total washout for poll observers “They all responded in the negative saying they had not budgeted for the elections,” Mr Sekanyange said. However, the EU — the principal supporter of civil society organisations in Rwanda concerned with good governance, protection of human-rights and the justice sector — had earlier communicated it would not send a formal observer missions to the Rwanda election because it did not see the need. READ: EU: We'll monitor Kenya polls but not Rwanda's The money to meet the revised budget is now expected to come from individual contributions by organisations subscribing to the platform. Even then, there was no assurance that the revised budget would be fully funded because the national civil society platform only recently received the National Electoral Commission’s accreditation to monitor elections countrywide, a prerequisite for any fundraising activities. Mr Sekanyange said they were still hopeful that member organisations would meet their funding commitments while part of the budget will come in the form of cars and drivers to transport observers to the field. “We plan to use some of the contributions to buy fuel and pay for lodging for observers on the ground including producing a final report,” he said. Random sampling The plan now is to deploy a team of two monitors to each of the 208 randomly sampled sectors. This is smaller than the 515 who monitored the local government elections last year, and the nearly 600 observers deployed during parliamentary elections in 2008. Mr Sekanyange said they will make the best of the situation and monitor as much as they can based on the available resources. The team is expected to monitor compliance with the legal framework during the entire electoral process namely the campaign period, voting and tallying procedures. The observer mission is also tasked with monitoring media coverage of the elections, equal opportunities of candidates as well as protection of voters’ rights. Close to 6.8 million Rwandans are registered to vote in the presidential elections that start on August 3 for those in the diaspora. 3,000 observers Incumbent president and the Rwanda Patriotic Front’s Paul Kagame will face off with the Green Party’s Frank Habineza, and Philippe Mpayimana, an independent candidate. National Electoral Commission executive secretary Charles Munyaneza, told Rwanda Today that there would be 2,326 polling centres and over 16,000 polling stations.The electoral commission said 3,000 observers had so far applied for accreditation to monitor the polls. “We shall accept all observers and we are accrediting them and there is an indication that they will be many,” said Mr Munyaneza. Already, the European Union communicated that they would not send any formal observer missions to the August 4 election. ALSO READ: Kagame warns envoys against meddling in polls However, Mr Munyaneza said this doesn’t mean that embassies of European Union member countries in Rwanda would not play an observatory role. The Electoral Commission said they would make sure the final results of the elections are announced as quickly as possible — a period not exceeding two or three days, according to Mr Munyaneza — in order to reduce anxiety as well as allow residents to resume their every day duties. The law says election provisional results ought to be announced in a period not exceeding five days after the polling day, and final results within seven days from the day the provisional results are announced.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.