Last week, the Supreme Court once again postponed the hearing of an appeal in a case where a former primary school teacher wants to be cleared of charges of slandering President Paul Kagame during the 2003 presidential election campaigns. Kamanzi Leon Charles who has been in custody since 2003, was sentenced to two years in prison in 2013 by the High Court, for causing embarrassment to the head of state and spreading rumours to incite the population against the established government. His conviction came as he served a longer sentence for charges he refused to discuss with the court. A hearing of his appeal against the conviction started in the Supreme Court last week but he asked for more time to prepare his defense and gather more evidence. “I have not read my case file or talked to my lawyers about this appeal because I first met them here today in the courtroom,” he said. The accused, who is in his sixties, informed the court that prisons officials had failed to relocate him on time from Mpanga prison to Kigali, making it difficult for him to meet with his two lawyers. The court wanted to understand why he was still in custody, long after his two year conviction had lapsed but he invoked his right not to divulge details of his previous conviction, which is believed to be a thirty-year sentence. Kamanzi was a vocal supporter of Faustin Twagiramungu, President Kagame’s main challenger during the 2003 presidential elections. He was found guilty of verbally treating the head of state with contempt during the president’s rallies in the Northern Province. His lawyers’ fault the charges, arguing the court was not given the details of the abusive language Kamanzi is accused of using. “Just after the 2003 elections, the president ordered that all those who had been involved in electoral misconduct especially slander be sent to a rehabilitation centre instead of being prosecuted. "Our client was sent to a rehabilitation centre but was later prosecuted and sentenced for the same charge,” said Uwamariya console, Kamanzi’s defence lawyer. According to his lawyers, Kamanzi was the only person charged and sentenced out of many others who were sent to Mudende rehabilitation camp. They argue that if the charges are not overturned by the Supreme Court, it would amount to selective prosecution. The prosecution had said the accused be given time to discuss the case with his lawyers before the court proceeded with the hearing instead of having it adjourned. However, Kamanzi’s lawyers said “important evidence” was missing from the file and they would need time to find it. “We want to bring to this court a certificate showing that the accused was sent to Mudende rehabilitation camp and that all the other accused sent with him were not prosecuted,” said Uwamahoro Justine, the second lawyer. The court set the next hearing for October 2 and urged all parties to be prepared by then to avoid further delays. "Lack of interest" Though the court agreed to hear the case, the prosecution raised preliminary objections, citing lack of interest on the side of the accused and termed the appeal inconsequential because it had been overtaken by events. “The accused was sentenced in 2013 and has already served the whole sentence. We do not see this appeal serving any purpose, so it should be retracted,” said Eric Munyaneza Nkwaya, for the prosecution. This was however challenged by the defence team. “The primary purpose of this appeal is not removing the sentence. It is to demonstrate the innocence of a citizen and to clear his record, which is tainted by the verdict we want quashed,” said Uwamariya. Last week’s hearing was the latest episode in this protracted case in which the accused was first charged in 2003. The case took a decade before a conviction was given after it emerged that the prosecution first filed it without enough evidence to try it. The trial was finally conducted and a conviction reached in 2013. The accused immediately applied for an appeal in the Supreme Court. The hearing came against a backdrop of arrests and detention on July 21, of two local authorities officials in the Western and Southern Provinces over charges of obstructing campaign rallies of independent presidential candidate Philipe Mpayimana. One of the officials was Sinamenye Jeremie, the mayor of Rubavu district, in western province, where candidate Mpayimana was met with empty venues. READ: Judiciary’s service delivery to improve with offline system   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.