While pursuing Fine Art studies at the Makerere University in Kampala in 2003, award-winning sculptor Peter Paul Oloya participated in a bronze casting competition organised by Pangolin Editions, a top sculpture foundry from England. His Grasshopper and Marabou Stork bronze sculptures won the first prize, and he has never looked back. “I had always wanted to cast in bronze since I was used to aluminium, and this competition was a chance for me to learn from the best. When I won the first prize, it was a turning point for me to compete in bronze sculptural projects,” Oloya told The EastAfrican. His biggest break however came in 2007, he was commissioned by the government to design a state gift for Queen Elizabeth II, to commemorate her second visit to Uganda for the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Kampala in November 2007. “When I submitted the Crowned Crane designs for the CHOGM monument competition and emerged winner, I was delighted. Pangolin Editions had just set up the Rwenzori Foundry, and the timing felt right that they were present when I was declared winner,” recalls Oloya. The Crowned Crane remains his outstanding and most magnificent bronze sculpture. It was a gift from the people of Uganda to Queen Elizabeth II. Oloya recalls the presentation of the Crowned Crane to the queen; “It meant a lot to me. The Queen told me at the grand dinner at the Kampala Serena Hotel; ‘The sculpture is a fantastic work of art. And you are one of Ugandan’s best sculptors. The sky is the limit.’” The Queen had the Crowned Crane sculpture mounted in the Buckingham Palace gardens in London, making Oloya one of the most viewed Ugandan artists in England. “I am very happy for Ugandan art; that it has been lifted to such great heights. It is one of those things that when I think about, even if I am sick, I get better and go back to work,” he says. The Crowned Crane is a bronze crested crane in flight, standing six feet high and weighs about 400 kilogrammes. According to Oloya, it symbolises Uganda’s development milestones as it “captures the bird’s form in a take-off stance, symbolising Uganda’s transformation or take-off, in relation to the 2007 CHOGM theme: Transforming the Commonwealth Society to Achieve Economic, Political and Human Development." “The curve of the neck, the backward fall of the crown and the legs, the spread out wings and the forward look of the bird are all intended to portray movement symbolising Uganda’s take-off and vision,” he adds. A bronze replica of the Crowned Crane stands in the courtyard of the British High Commission in Kamwokya, Kampala. It was commissioned on June 24, 2008. More commissions Later the same year, Oloya was chosen above other African artists and commissioned by the BBC World Service to redesign the trophy for the BBC African Footballer of the Year award beginning with the 2009 edition. His came up with a sculpture of a footballer in full kit, kicking a ball, symbolising a winning player. The footballer’s face is blank since the annual recipient is unknown.   The trophy is cast in solid bronze and the walls of the triangular plinth is also relatively cast thicker to give it some weight. In 2007, Oloya won the Faidika Na BBC art competition (a business programme for youths aged 14-30 in Swahili-speaking countries of Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda) to design and cast the winning trophies for the broadcaster’s young entrepreneur competition in 2008. \ The trophy is tall and slim, standing on a base in the shape of the Swahili-speaking African countries. The figure is facing skyward with arms stretched upwards, holding a star. Oloya has participated in a number of residencies and workshops sponsored by the Rwenzori Sculpture Foundation (RSF), a charity set up in 2004 by the directors of Pangolin Editions and Parabola Land Ltd. In 2008, RSF established the Rwenzori Founders, a bronze foundry and sculpture gallery 11 kilometres north of Kasese district in western Uganda on the Kasese-Fort Portal highway on the foothills of Uganda’s Rwenzori Mountains. “It has been great working with RSF, with all the benefit of teamwork and the expertise in bronze casting relieving artists from the burden of casting their own works. Residencies or artist exchange visits also provided me and other artists with exposure, new ideas, techniques and professional practice.” In 2010, Oloya attended the Commonwealth Connection International Art Residency in Lagos, Nigeria. He has held solo and group exhibitions in Uganda, Sweden, Norway and the UK. Besides bronze and aluminium casting, he also paints and carves wood. He owns a studio and a 250-volts backyard foundry at his home in Kampala. He says he has built up a clientele who know the value of bronze sculptures. However, he laments that; “We do not produce bronze and copper ingots in Uganda yet we have the minerals here. "Bronze casting is a very tedious process and sets me back because I collect the copper metal and mix it with tin and brass to make bronze. Metal alloying is an art on its own which is not my speciality because I have to first make bronze then go back to art and casting, so it sets me back.” Passion He describes his work as: “Art for peace and social change, toward the culture of peace, non-violence and co-existence. Based on my life experience and what we continue to witness globally in the form of war and terror.  I take this direction to lead the change I want to see starting from my community, country and beyond.” One just needs to see his work to realise his passion for the art. “I am at peace with art and it is what I love to do. My culture, life experiences and the quest for peace and positive social change punctuates my composition and content to touch lives. My childhood life experiences shaped me uniquely. It instilled in me a drive that I can do this perfectly,” says Oloya. He says that bronze is an everlasting sculpture medium compared with wood and clay, adding that all the other media can be converted to permanency in bronze casting. He notes that bronze is on high demand because it does not rust. On Ugandan artists and use of bronze casting Oloya observes that, “Bronze casting is a hot and expensive venture both materially and in terms of the skills and time it requires. It has its own prerequisite package of great fine art skills, passion, hard work, patience and attention to details at every stage of production which most artists do not have in combination.” “There is no doubt that bronze casting is the future of sculpture in Uganda. Personally I have embraced it for this reason but to be honest at the moment I see only three of us as active “firebugs” many are on the way,” he adds. He hopes to produce more work, exhibit widely and have his sculptures shown in all the continents while promoting world peace, peace non-violence and co-existence.   At the foot of the imposing ranges of the famous Mountains of the Moon, lies a unique art gallery and production house. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.