When Habil Okunda Olaka, the current chief executive officer of the Kenya Bankers Association, joined the University of Nairobi in 1986, there were not that many locally graduated electrical engineers in Kenya. Both the government — which partly sponsored his studies — and his family were eagerly waiting for him to graduate and start working as an electrical engineer. However, that was not happen, as he fell in love with accounting. Despite graduating with a first class bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from the University of Nairobi in 1989, he pursued an MBA in finance from the Manchester Business School in the UK and went on to work as an auditor at PricewaterhouseCoopers. He later joined Banque Indosuez (now Bank of Africa) in 1993 and worked for four years as an internal auditor. He moved to the East African Development Bank, where he rose to the position of director of operations. He was appointed chief executive officer of the Kenya Bankers Association in 2010 and is responsible for the strategic direction of the association under guidance from the governing council, the association’s governing body. He is a member of the Institute of the CPA of Kenya and the CFA Institute, and an alumnus of the Strathmore School of Accountancy. He is currently pursuing his doctoral studies in business administration at the United States International University in Nairobi. He represents the Kenya Bankers Associations on a number of boards such as the Higher Education Loans Board, the Kenya School of Monetary Studies, Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federation of Kenya Employers, the Centre for Corporate Governance and the Boards of Trustees of the National Research Fund. He enjoys golf and is a member of the Karen Country Club and Muthaiga Golf Club in Nairobi. ----------------------------------Seven years at the helm of the KBA Bankers Association; how has that been for you? It has been a great experience that has helped me discover a lot about myself. In 2016, there were a number of happenings including bank closures and the interest rate cap that brought a lot of pressure and put all the media, regulator and the market and stakeholders’ attention on us. I found myself in the middle of all these and it has helped me discover and build resilience on a personal level. What part of your job keeps you awake? The changing landscape The landscape can change by a single stroke of the pen. For an instance, a Member of Parliament can on any afternoon propose an amendment that has far reaching consequences. What’s your typical day like? I always wake up at 5:00 AM, so as to be able to leave the house by 6:00 AM. On typical day, I am already seated in the office at 7:00 AM You were strongly against the capping of interest rates. What’s your assessment of the cap so far and what do you think should be done going forward? The full effects will be felt in the second quarter of this year. But from what we are seeing, it’s not working. Smallholder borrowers and the SME’s who were targeted by the law cannot get cheaper credit because they are at higher risk of default. We still believe that it was not the best decision to take. You’ve recently launched Pesalink. Tell us about that and what it means to banking in Kenya? Pesalink is a platform that allows users to transfer money accounts in different banks. It helps banks and customers work in an efficient manner as users can transfer between Ksh10 and Ksh999,999 in real time. What do you regard as your biggest achievement yet? We have done quite a number of things but I believe the Cheque Truncation System, which we launched in 2011, and the Pesalink initiative we recently launched, are the biggest things I’m proud to have achieved. Any regrets? That the government invested a lot of money to train me as an electrical engineer and I ended up as an accountant. What is the best professional advice you’ve ever received? Focus on the day and things at hand. Most people spend too much time celebrating previous successes, regretting about the past and worrying about the future until they forget to focus on the present. What’s your off duty passion? I love Golf. Sometimes I get caught up in work and my PhD studies but I still create time for golf. What is your favorite destination in East Africa? Kampala. I worked in Kampala for 12 years. I cannot resist the urge to visit Kampala every time I have a chance. What’s your current read? I tend to always read more than one book at the same time. I’m currently reading Jack Welch’s straight from the gut and Barack Obama’s Dreams from my father. What cannot miss in your fridge? Fruit. I love freshly squeezed juice, so my wife ensures that there is always enough fruit available just for that.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.