Tullow Oil Plc has made new a discovery of crude oil in Emekuya-1 well in South Lokichar basin in northwestern Kenya. The explorer said Wednesday it has encountered about 75 metres of net oil pay in two zones in the well to a total depth of 1,356 metres in block 13T. Tullow said the find suggests the main oil reservoir is on the same gradient as the Etom-2 well which demonstrates that a major part of the Greater Etom structure is oil-filled. Emekuya-1 well is located 2.5 kilometres north of Etom-2, where oil was discovered in 2016. This well has proven oil charge across a significant part of the Greater Etom structure and we are very encouraged by the quality and particularly the regional extent of the reservoir, Tullow s Exploration Director Mr Angus McCoss said. Tullow, with its partners Africa Oil Corp and Maersk Oil, have so far found 750 million barrels of crude in blocks 13T and 10BB in the South Lokichar basin since 2012. Tullow holds 50 per cent equity while Africa Oil and Maersk have 25 per cent stake each. The explorer says it plans to drill four additional wells. Commercial oil production is expected to start from 2020. Tullow Oil Plc has made new a discovery of crude oil in Emekuya-1 well in South Lokichar basin in northwestern Kenya.The explorer said Wednesday it has encountered about 75 metres of net oil pay in two zones in the well to a total depth of 1,356 metres in block 13T.Tullow said the find suggests the main oil reservoir is on the same gradient as the Etom-2 well which demonstrates that a major part of the Greater Etom structure is oil-filled.Emekuya-1 well is located 2.5 kilometres north of Etom-2, where oil was discovered in 2016. This well has proven oil charge across a significant part of the Greater Etom structure and we are very encouraged by the quality and particularly the regional extent of the reservoir, Tullow s Exploration Director Mr Angus McCoss said.Tullow, with its partners Africa Oil Corp and Maersk Oil, have so far found 750 million barrels of crude in blocks 13T and 10BB in the South Lokichar basin since 2012.Tullow holds 50 per cent equity while Africa Oil and Maersk have 25 per cent stake each. The explorer says it plans to drill four additional wells.Commercial oil production is expected to start from 2020.