President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the standard gauge railway passenger train service at the Miritini station in Mombasa on Kenya's Coast Wednesday. Here are some of the odd things you will see on the train. Language and translation In most train services around the world, messages and announcements are routinely delivered in local languages with translations in English. The SGR, though, has its oddities, messages in English have been translated partially into Kiswahili. For instance, 'Kituo Cha Mombasa Terminus' or 'Watoto Carriage' at the Mtito Andei station - one of nine stations on the way to Nairobi. Could someone have ignored local experts and chosen an Android translator app? We may never know but the Chinese are running the train so anything could be possible. Also to note on language use, attendants on board are trained to speak in Chinese and English. Locomotive drivers As a way of making the train attractive, SGR operators have been training young Kenyans to drive the locomotive under their watch. For example, the inaugural train that President Kenyatta is riding is being driven by two Kenyan women aged 27 and 23. They recently graduated from the Railways Training Institute. No hawking Kenyans used to travelling to the countryside by road know that they must stop in certain towns to buy roast maize, tea or meat. Sometimes hawkers are allowed into the buses to sell their wares. On the SGR, hawkers are not only banned on trains, they are also not allowed into stations. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the standard gauge railway passenger train service at the Miritini station in Mombasa on Kenya's Coast Wednesday. Here are some of the odd things you will see on the train.In most train services around the world, messages and announcements are routinely delivered in local languages with translations in English.The SGR, though, has its oddities, messages in English have been translated partially into Kiswahili. For instance, 'Kituo Cha Mombasa Terminus' or 'Watoto Carriage' at the Mtito Andei station - one of nine stations on the way to Nairobi. Could someone have ignored local experts and chosen an Android translator app? We may never know but the Chinese are running the train so anything could be possible.Also to note on language use, attendants on board are trained to speak in Chinese and English. Locomotive driversAs a way of making the train attractive, SGR operators have been training young Kenyans to drive the locomotive under their watch.For example, the inaugural train that President Kenyatta is riding is being driven by two Kenyan women aged 27 and 23. They recently graduated from the Railways Training Institute.No hawkingKenyans used to travelling to the countryside by road know that they must stop in certain towns to buy roast maize, tea or meat. Sometimes hawkers are allowed into the buses to sell their wares.On the SGR, hawkers are not only banned on trains, they are also not allowed into stations.