Observing hardworking ordinary people draws out the creative juices of Kenyan visual artist Betty Sitonik. With bright colours and thick brushstrokes, Sitonik s uncomplicated illustrations are of everyday scenes. A selection of her acrylic on canvas paintings is currently on display at the Royal Nairobi Golf Club. The lone figure in Padri is looking out at a rural town stirring awake under an indigo sky in the early morning. The painting makes you pause and reflect. In Afternoon Heat, Sitonik paints a quiet country road with a solitary house under sunny, blue skies. Sitonik recalls her happy childhood memories growing up in Oloitokitok, a town in southern Kenya near the border with Tanzania. No one is working, and the shimmering vision is of a sleepy house wrapped in the afternoon heat, she explained. The painting Vivid is of a matatu collecting passengers in Oloitokitok. The yellow-orange forefront and white background with tree crowns create an idyllic small-town scene. My aim was to show genuine, original subjects drawn from a simple world, said Sitonik. In her urban works, Sitonik paints people living in low income areas. Using strong, bold colours she creates fractured figurative images standing in striking poses to represent the values of peace, justice and persistence. Sitonik became a fulltime artist in 2013 after finding herself painting for days, months and eventually years. She is mostly self-taught, but has learned a few tricks of the trade from mentors like Patrick Mukabi and has also been inspired by Kamunya Wanjuki and writer Anthony Mugo. Besides landscapes and reminiscent abstracts, Sitonik enjoys making graffiti art, and painting bright and energetic wall murals. She also teaches art to primary school children. In 2016, Sitonik was one of the winners of the Mobile Art School in Kenya competition that recognises and awards upcoming artists in Kenya under the age of 25. Her work is available at her studio in Karen Village, an arts and culture centre in Nairobi. Observing hardworking ordinary people draws out the creative juices of Kenyan visual artist Betty Sitonik. With bright colours and thick brushstrokes, Sitonik s uncomplicated illustrations are of everyday scenes. A selection of her acrylic on canvas paintings is currently on display at the Royal Nairobi Golf Club. The lone figure in Padri is looking out at a rural town stirring awake under an indigo sky in the early morning. The painting makes you pause and reflect. In Afternoon Heat, Sitonik paints a quiet country road with a solitary house under sunny, blue skies. Sitonik recalls her happy childhood memories growing up in Oloitokitok, a town in southern Kenya near the border with Tanzania. No one is working, and the shimmering vision is of a sleepy house wrapped in the afternoon heat, she explained. The painting Vivid is of a matatu collecting passengers in Oloitokitok. The yellow-orange forefront and white background with tree crowns create an idyllic small-town scene. My aim was to show genuine, original subjects drawn from a simple world, said Sitonik. In her urban works, Sitonik paints people living in low income areas. Using strong, bold colours she creates fractured figurative images standing in striking poses to represent the values of peace, justice and persistence. Sitonik became a fulltime artist in 2013 after finding herself painting for days, months and eventually years. She is mostly self-taught, but has learned a few tricks of the trade from mentors like Patrick Mukabi and has also been inspired by Kamunya Wanjuki and writer Anthony Mugo.Besides landscapes and reminiscent abstracts, Sitonik enjoys making graffiti art, and painting bright and energetic wall murals. She also teaches art to primary school children. In 2016, Sitonik was one of the winners of the Mobile Art School in Kenya competition that recognises and awards upcoming artists in Kenya under the age of 25. Her work is available at her studio in Karen Village, an arts and culture centre in Nairobi.