South Africa is seemingly at odds with the rest of Africa and, probably, the world over a rising wave of crime and sporadic attacks on foreign nationals. In recent weeks, at least three countries including Kenya issued travel alerts to their citizens. Understandably, according to data released by the South African police at the end of March, over 960,000 serious crimes were reported to the police between April and December 2016, averaging over 3,550 cases every day or 148 every hour. The biggest increase has happened in the contact crime category, where robbery with aggravating circumstances, including carjacking, showing an increase of 6.1 per cent. With this, the so-called trio crimes carjacking, robbery at home and robbery at non-residential premises all saw huge increases across all crime categories. Foreign nationals have not been spared, hence some countries cautioning their citizens intending to visit the Rainbow nation. READ: African Union MPs robbed at gunpoint in South Africa ALSO READ: Ugandan MPs robbed at gunpoint in South Africa Kenya had a more pronounced advisory after its Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Monica Juma warned of increased cases of armed robberies, carjacking, theft, burglary, kidnap, rape and mugging. The most worrying element of this crime wave is the rising number of incidents of attacks within the vicinity of hotels, Dr Juma said. She added that the diplomatic community was being openly attacked in residential areas and in the central business district. READ: Kenya s travel advisory may revive diplomatic row with SA World's watching The African Diaspora Forum (ADF) chairperson, Mr Marc Gbaffou said the travel warnings were a very strong message to the South African government that the world was watching. It s quite disappointing to hear the remarks that authorities will make publicly about issues like xenophobic attacks. It shows the world that visitors are not protected in the country, Mr Gbaffou said. South Africa is seemingly at odds with the rest of Africa and, probably, the world over a rising wave of crime and sporadic attacks on foreign nationals.In recent weeks, at least three countries including Kenya issued travel alerts to their citizens.Understandably, according to data released by the South African police at the end of March, over 960,000 serious crimes were reported to the police between April and December 2016, averaging over 3,550 cases every day or 148 every hour.The biggest increase has happened in the contact crime category, where robbery with aggravating circumstances, including carjacking, showing an increase of 6.1 per cent.With this, the so-called trio crimes carjacking, robbery at home and robbery at non-residential premises all saw huge increases across all crime categories.Foreign nationals have not been spared, hence some countries cautioning their citizens intending to visit the Rainbow nation.READ: African Union MPs robbed at gunpoint in South AfricaALSO READ: Ugandan MPs robbed at gunpoint in South AfricaKenya had a more pronounced advisory after its Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Monica Juma warned of increased cases of armed robberies, carjacking, theft, burglary, kidnap, rape and mugging. The most worrying element of this crime wave is the rising number of incidents of attacks within the vicinity of hotels, Dr Juma said.She added that the diplomatic community was being openly attacked in residential areas and in the central business district.READ: Kenya s travel advisory may revive diplomatic row with SAWorld's watchingThe African Diaspora Forum (ADF) chairperson, Mr Marc Gbaffou said the travel warnings were a very strong message to the South African government that the world was watching. It s quite disappointing to hear the remarks that authorities will make publicly about issues like xenophobic attacks. It shows the world that visitors are not protected in the country, Mr Gbaffou said.