The recent order by the Rwanda Social Security Board to restrict RAMA insurance plan subscribers from going to private hospitals unless they are referred by a government hospital has elicited criticism from clients, who say the move is uncalled for. Those insured under RAMA could incur a heavier cost if they go to private hospitals without a referral, something many have termed unfair because it infringes on their right to decide where to seek treatment. On April 18, a notice by RSSB indicated that effective May 1, it would no longer cover 85 per cent of the bill that policy holders who go to private clinics or hospitals incur. The insurer said it would only cover a percentage calculated on the basis of the standard tariff for private clinics. Many policy holders, mainly government workers, prefer going to private hospitals or polyclinics because of easy access to doctors and quality treatment which most times is lacking in public hospitals. We are entitled to choose where to get treatment and this restriction is unfair, said one RAMA subscriber who spoke to Rwanda Today on condition of anonymity. The new directive came a few months after the government increased the premiums for RAMA card holders by 25 per cent a move which also saw premiums for those subscribing to private insurance companies get increased to 15 per cent. READ: Rwanda employers in panic as govt raises cost of health insurance Although the Director-General of RSSB, Jonathan Gatera, has come out to say the move is intended to ensure proper management of the fund, health insurance analysts say the issue is more complicated than that. Healthcare is very costly and by coming up with a move like this, RSSB is ensuring that the costs are manageable, said Richard Butare, a health economist and independent consultant for healthcare utilisation. Escalating costs He said that for instance a simple ailment like malaria or flu can be treated by a general practitioner in a public hospital, but if it is treated in a private hospital, it ends up costing a lot more. One of the key concerns by RSSB was that some private hospitals were escalating costs to inflate their claims. Access to healthcare and other non-medical care in private hospitals has been found to be far better in private hospitals than in public hospitals. The bill for those who bypass government referrals will be based on the tariff of the private clinics and not the private hospital the card holder has gone to which will ultimately raise their top up. The recent order by the Rwanda Social Security Board to restrict RAMA insurance plan subscribers from going to private hospitals unless they are referred by a government hospital has elicited criticism from clients, who say the move is uncalled for.Those insured under RAMA could incur a heavier cost if they go to private hospitals without a referral, something many have termed unfair because it infringes on their right to decide where to seek treatment.On April 18, a notice by RSSB indicated that effective May 1, it would no longer cover 85 per cent of the bill that policy holders who go to private clinics or hospitals incur. The insurer said it would only cover a percentage calculated on the basis of the standard tariff for private clinics.Many policy holders, mainly government workers, prefer going to private hospitals or polyclinics because of easy access to doctors and quality treatment which most times is lacking in public hospitals. We are entitled to choose where to get treatment and this restriction is unfair, said one RAMA subscriber who spoke to Rwanda Today on condition of anonymity.The new directive came a few months after the government increased the premiums for RAMA card holders by 25 per cent a move which also saw premiums for those subscribing to private insurance companies get increased to 15 per cent. READ: Rwanda employers in panic as govt raises cost of health insuranceAlthough the Director-General of RSSB, Jonathan Gatera, has come out to say the move is intended to ensure proper management of the fund, health insurance analysts say the issue is more complicated than that. Healthcare is very costly and by coming up with a move like this, RSSB is ensuring that the costs are manageable, said Richard Butare, a health economist and independent consultant for healthcare utilisation. Escalating costsHe said that for instance a simple ailment like malaria or flu can be treated by a general practitioner in a public hospital, but if it is treated in a private hospital, it ends up costing a lot more.One of the key concerns by RSSB was that some private hospitals were escalating costs to inflate their claims.Access to healthcare and other non-medical care in private hospitals has been found to be far better in private hospitals than in public hospitals. The bill for those who bypass government referrals will be based on the tariff of the private clinics and not the private hospital the card holder has gone to which will ultimately raise their top up.