The war on corruption, delivery of pledges in last General Election and investment in infrastructure projects will form the key agenda in Kenya when the campaign period officially begins later this month. The opposition has already outlined its seven-point campaign agenda, that is anchored on good governance, inclusivity and increased budgetary allocation to county government to woo voters, while Jubilee Party intends to ride on huge investments in infrastructure projects to retain power. President Uhuru Kenyatta will next month launch the standard gauge railway a project that has received criticism and praise in equal measure as a successful flagship infrastructure project to boost his campaign strategy. While the Jubilee administration boasts of improved infrastructure mainly in transport, health and energy sectors, the opposition s seven-point agenda mainly pokes holes in President Kenyatta s four-year rule. The cases against President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto at the International Criminal Court were used as a campaign tool against then Prime Minister Raila Odinga, who was accused of sending the two leaders to leaders to The Hague-based to have an easy ride in the election. And enactment of 2010 Constitution ended the use of law reforms as a campaign agenda, with focus now turning to its full implementation. The clamour for reforms influenced the 2002 regime change, when opposition parties formed a coalition under National Rainbow Coalition led by retired president Mwai Kibaki to end Kanu s rule. Push for constitutional review also formed the campaign agenda in 2007 election after an attempt by Mr Kibaki s administration to push through a yes vote in 2005 on the proposed constitution failed. Campaign momentum started building after Mr Odinga successfully campaigned against enactment of the new law, citing lack of consultations that saw some contentious clauses included before they could be discussed. Opposition s seven-point agenda ahead of the polls are national reconciliation, resolving historical injustices, realising economic and social rights, restructuring the government, strengthening devolution and fighting poverty. National Super Alliance presidential secretariat told The EastAfrican that there is a team that is already crafting election manifesto based on the seven-point agenda to shape the opposition s campaigns. The Manifesto is the next big thing we are working on, said Denis Onyango, spokesman of opposition presidential candidate Raila Odinga. According to Musalia Mudavadi, one of the co-principals, the opposition is keen to address insecurity, food security, creation of employment opportunities for the youth, zero tolerance to corruption, strengthening of devolution and accelerating economic growth as opposition s main campaign message. The NASA I have in mind is the one that will sweep away mediocrity, dishonesty, and arrest thieves of public resources. I see a NASA with a good governance tag that will frown on impunity by leaders. It is a NASA that will restore decency and humility as social and governance virtues, said Mr Mudavadi. Election pledges will haunt the Jubilee administration s war on corruption, double-digit economic growth, one stadium per county and the laptop per child one. The high cost of living in Kenya, where prices of basic consumer goods have skyrocketed, has also added salt to Jubilee s injury. The high cost of commodities comes against the backdrop of shutting down operations in Nairobi. The war on corruption, delivery of pledges in last General Election and investment in infrastructure projects will form the key agenda in Kenya when the campaign period officially begins later this month.The opposition has already outlined its seven-point campaign agenda, that is anchored on good governance, inclusivity and increased budgetary allocation to county government to woo voters, while Jubilee Party intends to ride on huge investments in infrastructure projects to retain power. President Uhuru Kenyatta will next month launch the standard gauge railway a project that has received criticism and praise in equal measure as a successful flagship infrastructure project to boost his campaign strategy. While the Jubilee administration boasts of improved infrastructure mainly in transport, health and energy sectors, the opposition s seven-point agenda mainly pokes holes in President Kenyatta s four-year rule.The cases against President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto at the International Criminal Court were used as a campaign tool against then Prime Minister Raila Odinga, who was accused of sending the two leaders to leaders to The Hague-based to have an easy ride in the election. And enactment of 2010 Constitution ended the use of law reforms as a campaign agenda, with focus now turning to its full implementation. The clamour for reforms influenced the 2002 regime change, when opposition parties formed a coalition under National Rainbow Coalition led by retired president Mwai Kibaki to end Kanu s rule.Push for constitutional review also formed the campaign agenda in 2007 election after an attempt by Mr Kibaki s administration to push through a yes vote in 2005 on the proposed constitution failed. Campaign momentum started building after Mr Odinga successfully campaigned against enactment of the new law, citing lack of consultations that saw some contentious clauses included before they could be discussed.Opposition s seven-point agenda ahead of the polls are national reconciliation, resolving historical injustices, realising economic and social rights, restructuring the government, strengthening devolution and fighting poverty.National Super Alliance presidential secretariat told The EastAfrican that there is a team that is already crafting election manifesto based on the seven-point agenda to shape the opposition s campaigns. The Manifesto is the next big thing we are working on, said Denis Onyango, spokesman of opposition presidential candidate Raila Odinga.According to Musalia Mudavadi, one of the co-principals, the opposition is keen to address insecurity, food security, creation of employment opportunities for the youth, zero tolerance to corruption, strengthening of devolution and accelerating economic growth as opposition s main campaign message. The NASA I have in mind is the one that will sweep away mediocrity, dishonesty, and arrest thieves of public resources. I see a NASA with a good governance tag that will frown on impunity by leaders. It is a NASA that will restore decency and humility as social and governance virtues, said Mr Mudavadi.Election pledges will haunt the Jubilee administration s war on corruption, double-digit economic growth, one stadium per county and the laptop per child one. The high cost of living in Kenya, where prices of basic consumer goods have skyrocketed, has also added salt to Jubilee s injury. The high cost of commodities comes against the backdrop of shutting down operations in Nairobi.