When Salama Ali started investigating the disappearance of two younger brothers last year she made an awful discovery not only were radicalised young Kenyan men leaving to join Al-Shabaab militants in neighbouring Somalia, but women were being seized and trafficked by the group as sex slaves. Salama's search for information about her brothers had to be carried out quietly and confidentially, as any hint of a connection with the Al-Qaeda-linked Al-Shabaab can arouse the suspicion of the security forces. So she met discreetly with other women in Mombasa and the surrounding area, sharing stories and seeking information about male relatives who had vanished. "We discovered there were lots of us," Salama says. But Salama also uncovered something very different stories of women who had been taken to Somalia against their will. Terrified to speak The women were both young and old, from Christian and Muslim communities, from Mombasa and other parts of Kenya's coastal region. They were usually promised high-paid work in another town or abroad, and then kidnapped. Last September, Salama trained as a counsellor and set up a secret support group for returning women. Word spread and soon women began seeking her out and asking to join the group. Some arrived with babies, she says, some with HIV, and some with mental illness caused by their experiences. All are terrified to speak openly, because of the risk of being mistakenly identified as an Al-Shabaab sympathiser. Sarah, the wife of a former Al-Shabaab fighter, says there is an organised programme to breed the next generation of fighters. In a dark room with the curtains drawn, I meet this extraordinary group of women, who have a story that has never been told. Raped repeatedly "Men used to come and have sex with me - I can't tell you the number," says one, shaking her head as she recounts her ordeal. "For those three years, every man was coming to sleep with me." "They'd bring two or three men for each woman every night," says another. "We would be raped repeatedly." Some women were forced to become the "wives" of Al-Shabaab militants, it appears, while others were held as slaves in a brothel. When Salama Ali started investigating the disappearance of two younger brothers last year she made an awful discovery not only were radicalised young Kenyan men leaving to join Al-Shabaab militants in neighbouring Somalia, but women were being seized and trafficked by the group as sex slaves.Salama's search for information about her brothers had to be carried out quietly and confidentially, as any hint of a connection with the Al-Qaeda-linked Al-Shabaab can arouse the suspicion of the security forces.So she met discreetly with other women in Mombasa and the surrounding area, sharing stories and seeking information about male relatives who had vanished."We discovered there were lots of us," Salama says.But Salama also uncovered something very different stories of women who had been taken to Somalia against their will.Terrified to speakThe women were both young and old, from Christian and Muslim communities, from Mombasa and other parts of Kenya's coastal region. They were usually promised high-paid work in another town or abroad, and then kidnapped.Last September, Salama trained as a counsellor and set up a secret support group for returning women. Word spread and soon women began seeking her out and asking to join the group.Some arrived with babies, she says, some with HIV, and some with mental illness caused by their experiences. All are terrified to speak openly, because of the risk of being mistakenly identified as an Al-Shabaab sympathiser.Sarah, the wife of a former Al-Shabaab fighter, says there is an organised programme to breed the next generation of fighters.In a dark room with the curtains drawn, I meet this extraordinary group of women, who have a story that has never been told.Raped repeatedly "Men used to come and have sex with me - I can't tell you the number," says one, shaking her head as she recounts her ordeal. "For those three years, every man was coming to sleep with me.""They'd bring two or three men for each woman every night," says another. "We would be raped repeatedly."Some women were forced to become the "wives" of Al-Shabaab militants, it appears, while others were held as slaves in a brothel.