You don t have to stay long in any African city to feel the entrepreneurial energy on the streets. For those of us who grew up on the continent, it s very much a fact of life. But for those visiting, perhaps for the first time, it can seem overwhelming. There is no single reason, of course, for this bustle and energy. But a big part of it comes from the fact that Africa has the youngest population of any continent. On every street corner and in shops and offices in every neighbourhood, there are young entrepreneurs determined to make a living and build a business. This demographic dividend could be a huge advantage for Africa. Six out of 10 of our population are under 24 and the proportion of young people is growing all the time. By 2050, our continent will be home to nearly half a billion people who have either just entered or are about to enter the labour force. Their talent and enthusiasm can be the motor to accelerate Africa s development. Look at the way young Africans are adopting and adapting a technology for their own use and to create new business opportunities. Lagos a city I know very well is an extraordinary hub of tech start-ups, and similar centres are sprouting up across the continent. We are seeing the same creativity in many other sectors including mass market consumer goods, financial services and health. In a continent that has not seen the large increases in GDP in recent years translate into new jobs, this should be a powerful driver of both development and employment. Good ideas are being wasted But it has too often not had the impact it should, with lack of finance among the major barriers that need to be overcome. Good ideas are being wasted because the money is not there to back them while successful start-ups are being starved of the resources they need to grow. Small and medium-sized businesses, of course, complain on every continent about difficulty in obtaining finance. But African entrepreneurs have more reason than most to protest. Why is this the case? In many parts of our continent, banking is not as well developed or mature. Lending risks can be more difficult to assess. Competition for available funding is greater, with governments, who are safer bets, also keen to borrow and effectively crowding out the private sector. When financing is available, interest rates are high. It explains why there is plenty of anecdotal evidence from Africa s entrepreneurs that only financial support from family and friends enabled them to succeed no matter how good their idea or how well their young business was doing. The result is that, despite all this energy, African countries remain well down in international league tables of entrepreneurial activity. The difficulty of gaining access to capital is not the only reason for this poor showing. Entrepreneurs also suffer from a lack of wider support and training. The professional skills needed to help take a business to the next stage can be hard to find. Good news But other fast-developing regions such as India have been more successful in creating the right environment for entrepreneurs to thrive. The Indian government has launched actions plans to support entrepreneurs and provide subsidies, Startup India and Digital India being just two examples. The good news is that there is a widespread recognition in Africa of just how important it is to do more to harness the entrepreneurial spirit on our continent. African governments along with international institutions such as the African Development Bank and World Bank and NGOs all have initiatives in place. You don t have to stay long in any African city to feel the entrepreneurial energy on the streets. For those of us who grew up on the continent, it s very much a fact of life. But for those visiting, perhaps for the first time, it can seem overwhelming.There is no single reason, of course, for this bustle and energy. But a big part of it comes from the fact that Africa has the youngest population of any continent. On every street corner and in shops and offices in every neighbourhood, there are young entrepreneurs determined to make a living and build a business. This demographic dividend could be a huge advantage for Africa. Six out of 10 of our population are under 24 and the proportion of young people is growing all the time. By 2050, our continent will be home to nearly half a billion people who have either just entered or are about to enter the labour force. Their talent and enthusiasm can be the motor to accelerate Africa s development.Look at the way young Africans are adopting and adapting a technology for their own use and to create new business opportunities. Lagos a city I know very well is an extraordinary hub of tech start-ups, and similar centres are sprouting up across the continent. We are seeing the same creativity in many other sectors including mass market consumer goods, financial services and health. In a continent that has not seen the large increases in GDP in recent years translate into new jobs, this should be a powerful driver of both development and employment. Good ideas are being wastedBut it has too often not had the impact it should, with lack of finance among the major barriers that need to be overcome. Good ideas are being wasted because the money is not there to back them while successful start-ups are being starved of the resources they need to grow. Small and medium-sized businesses, of course, complain on every continent about difficulty in obtaining finance. But African entrepreneurs have more reason than most to protest. Why is this the case? In many parts of our continent, banking is not as well developed or mature. Lending risks can be more difficult to assess. Competition for available funding is greater, with governments, who are safer bets, also keen to borrow and effectively crowding out the private sector. When financing is available, interest rates are high. It explains why there is plenty of anecdotal evidence from Africa s entrepreneurs that only financial support from family and friends enabled them to succeed no matter how good their idea or how well their young business was doing. The result is that, despite all this energy, African countries remain well down in international league tables of entrepreneurial activity. The difficulty of gaining access to capital is not the only reason for this poor showing. Entrepreneurs also suffer from a lack of wider support and training. The professional skills needed to help take a business to the next stage can be hard to find. Good newsBut other fast-developing regions such as India have been more successful in creating the right environment for entrepreneurs to thrive. The Indian government has launched actions plans to support entrepreneurs and provide subsidies, Startup India and Digital India being just two examples. The good news is that there is a widespread recognition in Africa of just how important it is to do more to harness the entrepreneurial spirit on our continent. African governments along with international institutions such as the African Development Bank and World Bank and NGOs all have initiatives in place.