During the first half of last year, I visited Kenya several times, staying in the capital, Nairobi, and occasionally upcountry. Early as it was, this year s elections were already causing enough excitement to have fooled a first-time visitor into thinking the voting was going to happen shortly. Some sub-national leaders, county governors especially, had literally stopped working and were doing and saying all they could to prevent anyone eying their seats to erect a persuasive platform to support their campaign. Meanwhile, their rivals were busy making declarations accusing the incumbents of this or that shortcoming, in addition to bragging about their political and other credentials and making grandiose promises to would-be voters about what they would do for them if elected. Meanwhile, back in Nairobi and in their various constituencies, some national-level leaders had already taken to toxic rhetoric, making inflammatory statements, some with sectarian undertones. In one well-publicised case, the police rounded up a number of Members of Parliament belonging to different political parties for making statements bordering on hate speech. There were moments when politicking seemed to have relegated working to secondary importance. I have been on a few trips this year as well and, as I indicated in an earlier column, even watched some episodes of voting and fighting during what many Kenyans agree were hardly pride-inducing party primaries last month. One would have imagined that after months of intense manoeuvring, running up and down the country and spending vast amounts of money on mobilisation, exhaustion would have set in and reduced the tempo of activity and forced candidates to calm down a bit. Wapi! Kenya is not at all unique in this. Uganda Uganda, its immediate neighbour to the west, regularly descends into madness with the arrival of each new electoral cycle, when politicians and their hangers-on begin to hunt for votes and for money to buy support. Even relatively minor electoral processes, such as those intended to identify and select the country s representatives to the East African Legislative Assembly, can go on and on and cause real disruption as candidates run up and down making mendacious or ignorant promises about what they will do for Uganda if sent to Arusha. And here, too, money and inducements change hands as candidates seeking to boost their chances go around giving a little something to Members of Parliament who eventually decide who goes to Arusha. I spend much time watching the shenanigans. Each time, I wonder if there is no better, less acrimonious and socially and financially less costly way to choose the leaders we want. It is not unusual for people to respond to a question such as this one with: Some of these things happen even in America. During the first half of last year, I visited Kenya several times, staying in the capital, Nairobi, and occasionally upcountry. Early as it was, this year s elections were already causing enough excitement to have fooled a first-time visitor into thinking the voting was going to happen shortly.Some sub-national leaders, county governors especially, had literally stopped working and were doing and saying all they could to prevent anyone eying their seats to erect a persuasive platform to support their campaign.Meanwhile, their rivals were busy making declarations accusing the incumbents of this or that shortcoming, in addition to bragging about their political and other credentials and making grandiose promises to would-be voters about what they would do for them if elected. Meanwhile, back in Nairobi and in their various constituencies, some national-level leaders had already taken to toxic rhetoric, making inflammatory statements, some with sectarian undertones.In one well-publicised case, the police rounded up a number of Members of Parliament belonging to different political parties for making statements bordering on hate speech.There were moments when politicking seemed to have relegated working to secondary importance. I have been on a few trips this year as well and, as I indicated in an earlier column, even watched some episodes of voting and fighting during what many Kenyans agree were hardly pride-inducing party primaries last month.One would have imagined that after months of intense manoeuvring, running up and down the country and spending vast amounts of money on mobilisation, exhaustion would have set in and reduced the tempo of activity and forced candidates to calm down a bit. Wapi! Kenya is not at all unique in this. Uganda Uganda, its immediate neighbour to the west, regularly descends into madness with the arrival of each new electoral cycle, when politicians and their hangers-on begin to hunt for votes and for money to buy support.Even relatively minor electoral processes, such as those intended to identify and select the country s representatives to the East African Legislative Assembly, can go on and on and cause real disruption as candidates run up and down making mendacious or ignorant promises about what they will do for Uganda if sent to Arusha.And here, too, money and inducements change hands as candidates seeking to boost their chances go around giving a little something to Members of Parliament who eventually decide who goes to Arusha.I spend much time watching the shenanigans. Each time, I wonder if there is no better, less acrimonious and socially and financially less costly way to choose the leaders we want. It is not unusual for people to respond to a question such as this one with: Some of these things happen even in America. 