The mist was rolling in slowly, mystic and dense, covering everything as it came down the hills into the valley below. It seemed almost alive, as if its intent to cover the land emanated from a from some sinister motive. Above, the grey skies streaked fluorescent here and there, showed that the sun was shining, just not here. Barbara shivered slightly, not so much from the tendrils of mist wrapping around her, but more from what was to come. Her cheek was still smarting from a vicious slap she d received; just moments before she was unceremoniously shoved down a hillside to her spot, along a winding valley road. What do you mean you won t? Rick had rounded on her with a look that had silenced everyone in the little encampment, perched high on the side of one of the densely forested hills. The leader of a gang of highway miscreants, he was of the breed of men who seemed to be without conscious. You hurt the last ones you said you wouldn t you said A slap that lifted her slightly off her feet and sent her to the ground cut her off. I know what I said! Don t think I m asking Barbs! Don t think I won t Rick had picked up a thick stick as he strode toward where she lay, raising it to hit her as vitriol spewed from his lips, when a sharp clear whistle echoed hauntingly across the landscape. Rick froze, cocking his head as three more whistle calls sounded and faded. It s time, he said, his teeth bared in a savage grin that distorted his features, So? Will I have to replace you? he asked Barbara, who lay sprawled on the ground before him. No, her voice shook, but had a defiant edge to it. I ll go. Like a dream The damp, seemingly solid mist had blanketed the entire valley now. Barbara could actually see it swirling. It covered everything, leaving her in a dream like world, where the shapes of the trees bordering the narrow valley road, appeared and disappeared like illusions. A deathly stillness had settled with the mist, a silence broken only by her nervous breathing and the light footsteps in the wood beyond, where Rick and the rest were positioning themselves. Oh Barbara what are you going to do? she whispered to herself, steeling her nerves as the distinct hum of a car permeated the wet cloud around her. Almost as soon as she heard it, Barbara saw two tiny lights appear in the distance. The car seemed to be going fast, but she couldn t really judge, not with this mist that made everything seem as if being seen through a thin fabric. Then a sharp warning whistle a few feet away startled her, and she instinctively stepped right into the middle of the road, straight into the now glaring headlights of the oncoming vehicle. There was a terrible screeching, and Barbara closed her eyes and twisted her body away from the hit she was sure was coming. What the hell ! It was a yell of anger that dissipated almost as soon as it begun. Oh! Look Andrew, it s just a young girl! A soft, breathy, woman s voice, scared yet pity dripping off every word. As suddenly as Barbara knew she just couldn t do what she was meant to do, she also knew exactly what she ought to do. Springing up and around from her half-crouching position as if possessed, she dashed to the stationary car at the same moment the woman, Caroline, had begun to get out to check on her. Yanking the back door open, the car s automatic lock having been disabled the second Caroline opened her door, Barbara dived into the backseat. The mist was rolling in slowly, mystic and dense, covering everything as it came down the hills into the valley below. It seemed almost alive, as if its intent to cover the land emanated from a from some sinister motive.Above, the grey skies streaked fluorescent here and there, showed that the sun was shining, just not here. Barbara shivered slightly, not so much from the tendrils of mist wrapping around her, but more from what was to come. Her cheek was still smarting from a vicious slap she d received; just moments before she was unceremoniously shoved down a hillside to her spot, along a winding valley road. What do you mean you won t? Rick had rounded on her with a look that had silenced everyone in the little encampment, perched high on the side of one of the densely forested hills. The leader of a gang of highway miscreants, he was of the breed of men who seemed to be without conscious. You hurt the last ones you said you wouldn t you said A slap that lifted her slightly off her feet and sent her to the ground cut her off. I know what I said! Don t think I m asking Barbs! Don t think I won t Rick had picked up a thick stick as he strode toward where she lay, raising it to hit her as vitriol spewed from his lips, when a sharp clear whistle echoed hauntingly across the landscape. Rick froze, cocking his head as three more whistle calls sounded and faded. It s time, he said, his teeth bared in a savage grin that distorted his features, So? Will I have to replace you? he asked Barbara, who lay sprawled on the ground before him. No, her voice shook, but had a defiant edge to it. I ll go. Like a dream The damp, seemingly solid mist had blanketed the entire valley now. Barbara could actually see it swirling. It covered everything, leaving her in a dream like world, where the shapes of the trees bordering the narrow valley road, appeared and disappeared like illusions. A deathly stillness had settled with the mist, a silence broken only by her nervous breathing and the light footsteps in the wood beyond, where Rick and the rest were positioning themselves. Oh Barbara what are you going to do? she whispered to herself, steeling her nerves as the distinct hum of a car permeated the wet cloud around her. Almost as soon as she heard it, Barbara saw two tiny lights appear in the distance. The car seemed to be going fast, but she couldn t really judge, not with this mist that made everything seem as if being seen through a thin fabric. Then a sharp warning whistle a few feet away startled her, and she instinctively stepped right into the middle of the road, straight into the now glaring headlights of the oncoming vehicle. There was a terrible screeching, and Barbara closed her eyes and twisted her body away from the hit she was sure was coming. What the hell ! It was a yell of anger that dissipated almost as soon as it begun. Oh! Look Andrew, it s just a young girl! A soft, breathy, woman s voice, scared yet pity dripping off every word.As suddenly as Barbara knew she just couldn t do what she was meant to do, she also knew exactly what she ought to do. Springing up and around from her half-crouching position as if possessed, she dashed to the stationary car at the same moment the woman, Caroline, had begun to get out to check on her. Yanking the back door open, the car s automatic lock having been disabled the second Caroline opened her door, Barbara dived into the backseat.