The family of the deceased Kigali tycoon, Assinapol Rwigara and Nyarugenge District are back in court over a disputed plot of land in Kigali s suburb of Kiyovu, which the family says was illegally possessed. The new case, which is in the Supreme Court, is a result of a judgement given by Nyarugenge Intermediate Court in favour of Rwigara in 2013, which the district challenged saying it was unfairly heard in the case. The lawyer representing Nyarugenge District told the court that the disputed plot of land is where the Rwanda Social Security Board (RSSB) headquarters were built. The Supreme Court was petitioned by the office of the Ombudsman because a decision by the Nyarugenge Intermediate Court in 2013 against Nyarugenge District was tainted with injustice and ought to be reviewed, the presiding judge said while opening the proceedings last week on Wednesday. The law allows the office of the ombudsman to apply for a review of any final judgement when it is convinced that there is unquestionable evidence of corruption, favouritism or nepotism that were relied on in the judgment and that were unknown to the losing party during the course of the proceedings. The same procedure can be used when there are provisions and irrefutable evidence that the judge ignored in making the judgment or when a final court judgment cannot be executed due to the drafting of its content. Calls to dismiss case Nyarugenge District relied on this last reason when petitioning the office of the ombudsman, but the lawyer representing the Rwigara family decried what he calls the abuse of procedure and wants the case to be dismissed once and for all. The law bars whoever was entitled to other ordinary and extraordinary procedures to appeal and did not exercise this right from using this review procedure, and we want to bring to the attention of this court that Nyarugenge District failed to appeal within the time limit prescribed by law and they want the judgement reviewed, said Janvier Rwagatare, the lawyer representing the embattled family. According to Mr Rwagatare, the Supreme Court should not waste its time in examining the matter. We have presented to the court a certificate showing that the district did not appeal, and rather went ahead to pay some money ordered by the court, which amount to partial execution of the judgement but later on changed their mind, the lawyer added. On the other hand, Epimaque Rubango, a state attorney representing Nyarugenge District, said the fact that the matter was referred to the Supreme Court by the office of the ombudsman makes it automatically receivable. Only the office of the ombudsman can decide whether a party has failed to use other available ways of redress, before considering the claim and whether or not there were any irregularities. It therefore cannot bar this court from hearing the matter, Mr Rubango argued. The case also involves equity, because the defendant is also aware that if a case cannot be executed there needs to be a way out and that is what we want this court to decide, he added. Expropriation The family of the deceased Kigali tycoon, Assinapol Rwigara and Nyarugenge District are back in court over a disputed plot of land in Kigali s suburb of Kiyovu, which the family says was illegally possessed.The new case, which is in the Supreme Court, is a result of a judgement given by Nyarugenge Intermediate Court in favour of Rwigara in 2013, which the district challenged saying it was unfairly heard in the case. The lawyer representing Nyarugenge District told the court that the disputed plot of land is where the Rwanda Social Security Board (RSSB) headquarters were built. The Supreme Court was petitioned by the office of the Ombudsman because a decision by the Nyarugenge Intermediate Court in 2013 against Nyarugenge District was tainted with injustice and ought to be reviewed, the presiding judge said while opening the proceedings last week on Wednesday.The law allows the office of the ombudsman to apply for a review of any final judgement when it is convinced that there is unquestionable evidence of corruption, favouritism or nepotism that were relied on in the judgment and that were unknown to the losing party during the course of the proceedings. The same procedure can be used when there are provisions and irrefutable evidence that the judge ignored in making the judgment or when a final court judgment cannot be executed due to the drafting of its content.Calls to dismiss caseNyarugenge District relied on this last reason when petitioning the office of the ombudsman, but the lawyer representing the Rwigara family decried what he calls the abuse of procedure and wants the case to be dismissed once and for all. The law bars whoever was entitled to other ordinary and extraordinary procedures to appeal and did not exercise this right from using this review procedure, and we want to bring to the attention of this court that Nyarugenge District failed to appeal within the time limit prescribed by law and they want the judgement reviewed, said Janvier Rwagatare, the lawyer representing the embattled family.According to Mr Rwagatare, the Supreme Court should not waste its time in examining the matter. We have presented to the court a certificate showing that the district did not appeal, and rather went ahead to pay some money ordered by the court, which amount to partial execution of the judgement but later on changed their mind, the lawyer added. On the other hand, Epimaque Rubango, a state attorney representing Nyarugenge District, said the fact that the matter was referred to the Supreme Court by the office of the ombudsman makes it automatically receivable. Only the office of the ombudsman can decide whether a party has failed to use other available ways of redress, before considering the claim and whether or not there were any irregularities. It therefore cannot bar this court from hearing the matter, Mr Rubango argued. The case also involves equity, because the defendant is also aware that if a case cannot be executed there needs to be a way out and that is what we want this court to decide, he added.Expropriation