Al-Shabaab has stepped up its terror attacks in recent months, demonstrating its "resilience and adaptability" despite "internal squabbles and fracturing," the United Nations chief says in a new report. A total of 134 civilian deaths and 200 injuries were attributed to Shabaab or "unidentified persons" in the first four months of this year - a 47 per cent increase from the same period last year, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told the Security Council on Friday. Somali security forces and the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) accounted for a combined total of 74 civilian deaths during the past four months, the UN leader added. Al-Shabaab is also reported to have killed more than 30 Kenyan troops in a January 27 "complex attack" on a military base near Kulbiyow in Somalia's Lower Juba region. "The exact figure remains unknown," Mr Guterres states without offering a reason for the uncertainty. Tactical revamp That incident is described in the report as the most serious in a series of frequent Shabaab attacks on Amisom and Somali troops in rural sections of central and southern Somalia. "Al-Shabaab remains a potent threat. "The group s tactical evolution and growing level of sophistication in its execution of complex terrorist operations in urban and rural settings are a testament to that," the secretary-general observes. Cholera vaccination Mr Guterres also cites a need to "provide Amisom with predictable support in order to increase its effectiveness and facilitate its joint operations". He points out that 95 per cent of Amisom's roughly 21,000 troops have not been vaccinated against cholera, even though an outbreak of the potentially fatal disease is underway in some of the areas where Amisom personnel are located. Secretary-General Guterres' report includes an optimistic assessment of political developments in Somalia. The peaceful election of a new president is viewed as the high point in "a sequence of remarkable events, which gives the people of Somalia and the international community considerable hope for the future of the country". "Somalia now has a new federal government that has been welcomed across clan lines. Drought Al-Shabaab has stepped up its terror attacks in recent months, demonstrating its "resilience and adaptability" despite "internal squabbles and fracturing," the United Nations chief says in a new report.A total of 134 civilian deaths and 200 injuries were attributed to Shabaab or "unidentified persons" in the first four months of this year - a 47 per cent increase from the same period last year, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told the Security Council on Friday.Somali security forces and the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) accounted for a combined total of 74 civilian deaths during the past four months, the UN leader added.Al-Shabaab is also reported to have killed more than 30 Kenyan troops in a January 27 "complex attack" on a military base near Kulbiyow in Somalia's Lower Juba region. "The exact figure remains unknown," Mr Guterres states without offering a reason for the uncertainty.Tactical revampThat incident is described in the report as the most serious in a series of frequent Shabaab attacks on Amisom and Somali troops in rural sections of central and southern Somalia."Al-Shabaab remains a potent threat. "The group s tactical evolution and growing level of sophistication in its execution of complex terrorist operations in urban and rural settings are a testament to that," the secretary-general observes. Cholera vaccination Mr Guterres also cites a need to "provide Amisom with predictable support in order to increase its effectiveness and facilitate its joint operations".He points out that 95 per cent of Amisom's roughly 21,000 troops have not been vaccinated against cholera, even though an outbreak of the potentially fatal disease is underway in some of the areas where Amisom personnel are located.Secretary-General Guterres' report includes an optimistic assessment of political developments in Somalia.The peaceful election of a new president is viewed as the high point in "a sequence of remarkable events, which gives the people of Somalia and the international community considerable hope for the future of the country"."Somalia now has a new federal government that has been welcomed across clan lines.Drought