Five Kenyan police officers died on Thursday morning after their vehicle ran over a landmine on the Malelei-Kulan road in Liboi, near the Somali border. "The five police officers killed in the attack were headed to boost the ongoing operation in Liboi," said North Eastern Regional Coordinator Mohamud Ali Saleh. Mr Saleh later told reporters that police had arrested several suspects and were following numerous leads to individuals behind the resurgence of landmine attacks in the region. He said they had send contingents of security officers to pursue the assailants. Unscrupulous businessmen They (Al-Shabaab) have been weakened by Amisom operations in Somalia and they are now running to Kenya they are now planting explosives on isolated roads but we will destroy them, he said. He linked the attacks to unscrupulous businessmen who deal with contraband goods from Somalia whom, he claimed, want to protect their businesses. They are against the government opening the border for cross border business, he said. We also suspect that local criminal elements might be assisting the militant whom we are going to arrest soon. Jihadists The Shabaab, a Somali-led Al-Qaeda-linked jihadist group, claimed the attack as well as the previous two in a statement carried by the SITE Intelligence Group. This brings to 14 the number of Kenyan security officials who have been killed by landmines in the past two days. Nine officers died in two separate landmine attacks in Mandera and Garissa counties, both in Kenya's restive northeast close to the border with Somalia. Five security officials in the Mandera incident were in a convoy escorting Governor Ali Roba to a political rally when they were killed by a roadside bomb. In Garissa, four Administration Police officers died while two others suffered injuries when their vehicle hit a landmine near Kulan Dam in Liboi Wednesday morning. Three died on the spot while another succumbed as he was being taken to hospital. Warning Five Kenyan police officers died on Thursday morning after their vehicle ran over a landmine on the Malelei-Kulan road in Liboi, near the Somali border."The five police officers killed in the attack were headed to boost the ongoing operation in Liboi," said North Eastern Regional Coordinator Mohamud Ali Saleh.Mr Saleh later told reporters that police had arrested several suspects and were following numerous leads to individuals behind the resurgence of landmine attacks in the region.He said they had send contingents of security officers to pursue the assailants.Unscrupulous businessmen They (Al-Shabaab) have been weakened by Amisom operations in Somalia and they are now running to Kenya they are now planting explosives on isolated roads but we will destroy them, he said.He linked the attacks to unscrupulous businessmen who deal with contraband goods from Somalia whom, he claimed, want to protect their businesses. They are against the government opening the border for cross border business, he said. We also suspect that local criminal elements might be assisting the militant whom we are going to arrest soon. JihadistsThe Shabaab, a Somali-led Al-Qaeda-linked jihadist group, claimed the attack as well as the previous two in a statement carried by the SITE Intelligence Group.This brings to 14 the number of Kenyan security officials who have been killed by landmines in the past two days.Nine officers died in two separate landmine attacks in Mandera and Garissa counties, both in Kenya's restive northeast close to the border with Somalia.Five security officials in the Mandera incident were in a convoy escorting Governor Ali Roba to a political rally when they were killed by a roadside bomb.In Garissa, four Administration Police officers died while two others suffered injuries when their vehicle hit a landmine near Kulan Dam in Liboi Wednesday morning. Three died on the spot while another succumbed as he was being taken to hospital.Warning