The City of Kigali is working on a plan to start the long-awaited rehabilitation of the former Gikondo Industrial Park even as budget constraints continue to derail the relocation exercise for industrial businesses still operating in the area. The valley, which is designated as a wetland, was expected to be restored to its ecological status as soon as the relocation exercise, which started in 2013, is complete. However, while 2016 was the final deadline set for the complete relocation of Gikondo industries to the new Kigali Special Economic Zone, a bulk of factories and industrial businesses are yet to vacate. Meanwhile, Kigali City authorities said they will soon start turning the valley into a recreation site as part of the rehabilitation process as the remaining businesses plan to move. We shall do greening work on two hectares this year, and proceed with two hectares next year as we wait for all the industries to move, said Parfait Busabizwa, Kigali City Vice Mayor for Economic Affairs. According to trade and industry officials, so far, only nine heavy industries have fully moved from Gikondo to the Kigali Special Economic Zone. Another five industries are expected to follow when their premises are complete. The factories include Tolirwa, Ameki Color, Tabarwanda, Rwanda Trading Company and Coffee Business Centre. Compensation There are also a number of light factories and around 30 industries like garages and warehouses whose relocation timelines remain unclear. The relocation exercise was expected to be complete by the end of last year to pave the way for rehabilitation activities. While the government met the cost of putting up new facilities for heavy and light industries only, the other businesses such as garages and warehouses accepted to relocate on condition that they would also get compensated. Rwanda Today understands that disagreements between the government and industries about compensation remains a contentious issue. And it is likely to further derail the relocation exercise, thereby exposing the area to further degradation. There are laws that prohibit building on wetlands or any other activity that could damage the ecosystem of that place. Having industrial businesses in Gikondo not only created an unsuitable working environment but also undermined the wetland. But Mr Busabizwa said city officials were planning to meet with Trade, Industry and East African Community Affairs Ministry officials to agree on when the remaining businesses can move to pave the way for the rehabilitation. He said Rwf100 million was set aside this year for greening the area as well as putting up recreational facilities including artificial lakes. The City of Kigali is working on a plan to start the long-awaited rehabilitation of the former Gikondo Industrial Park even as budget constraints continue to derail the relocation exercise for industrial businesses still operating in the area.The valley, which is designated as a wetland, was expected to be restored to its ecological status as soon as the relocation exercise, which started in 2013, is complete.However, while 2016 was the final deadline set for the complete relocation of Gikondo industries to the new Kigali Special Economic Zone, a bulk of factories and industrial businesses are yet to vacate.Meanwhile, Kigali City authorities said they will soon start turning the valley into a recreation site as part of the rehabilitation process as the remaining businesses plan to move. We shall do greening work on two hectares this year, and proceed with two hectares next year as we wait for all the industries to move, said Parfait Busabizwa, Kigali City Vice Mayor for Economic Affairs.According to trade and industry officials, so far, only nine heavy industries have fully moved from Gikondo to the Kigali Special Economic Zone. Another five industries are expected to follow when their premises are complete.The factories include Tolirwa, Ameki Color, Tabarwanda, Rwanda Trading Company and Coffee Business Centre.CompensationThere are also a number of light factories and around 30 industries like garages and warehouses whose relocation timelines remain unclear.The relocation exercise was expected to be complete by the end of last year to pave the way for rehabilitation activities. While the government met the cost of putting up new facilities for heavy and light industries only, the other businesses such as garages and warehouses accepted to relocate on condition that they would also get compensated.Rwanda Today understands that disagreements between the government and industries about compensation remains a contentious issue. And it is likely to further derail the relocation exercise, thereby exposing the area to further degradation.There are laws that prohibit building on wetlands or any other activity that could damage the ecosystem of that place. Having industrial businesses in Gikondo not only created an unsuitable working environment but also undermined the wetland.But Mr Busabizwa said city officials were planning to meet with Trade, Industry and East African Community Affairs Ministry officials to agree on when the remaining businesses can move to pave the way for the rehabilitation.He said Rwf100 million was set aside this year for greening the area as well as putting up recreational facilities including artificial lakes.