Ever since Diane Shima Rwigara came out to express her political views and later declared her intention to run for president of Rwanda in the August 4 elections the 35-year-old has attracted praise and criticism in equal measure. One week after nude photographs which she has disowned were circulated on social media a day after she announced her presidential bid, Ms Rwigara says she will not be deterred: I will not stop. I am going to continue with my preparations. The incident made me stronger, more resilient and determined to continue with this cause, she told The EastAfrican. The photographs were released through an email titled the shameless acts of Diane Shima Rwigara who wants to contest for presidency , with the sender adding look at our presidential candidate . The sender identified himself/herself as Emmy Twahirwa and claimed to be a journalist. Robert Mugabe, a journalist who has reportedly been associated with Ms Rwigara, later stated on Facebook that the photos were doctored and were the work of her detractors. Following that, Ms Rwigara took a few days off the public scene and later told The EastAfrican that the photographs were manipulated. The incident elicited sympathy for the US-educated activist-turned politician, with many condemning the act of shaming her and others called for investigation. Bold No government agency has commented on the nudes scandal nor has any official come out to publicly condemn the sharing of the photos or denounce the presidential hopeful over her supposed questionable integrity . But Ms Rwigara, who on Wednesday May 10 went to the National Electoral Commission to present the list of people who will sign for her and pick documents needed for the purpose, attracted wide coverage. READ: Diane Rwigara joins race for Rwanda presidency As an independent candidate, she must raise 600 signatures, at least 20 from each of the 30 districts. She believes that once she makes it to the ballot, she would make a good case and race against President Paul Kagame, who is widely expected to win the August 4 polls with a landslide. Ms Rwigara, who graduated with a bachelor s degree in finance from the California State University, Sacramento and a master s degree in accounting from California State University, San Francisco, has surprised many with her boldness. On February 23, she held a press conference where she described herself as a concerned Rwandan and activist but denied intending to engage in politics. She highlighted several issues the country was facing that she said needed to be addressed urgently. Among these, she said, were the growing levels of poverty and hunger, which she said the government did not want to recognise, let alone address. I am neither a politician nor a member of any political party, Ms Rwigara told The EastAfrican shortly after the press conference, adding that she decided to speak out about the issues because no one else appeared willing to speak about them. On May 3, she called another press conference, during which she announced her intention to pit candidature against President Kagame. Ever since Diane Shima Rwigara came out to express her political views and later declared her intention to run for president of Rwanda in the August 4 elections the 35-year-old has attracted praise and criticism in equal measure.One week after nude photographs which she has disowned were circulated on social media a day after she announced her presidential bid, Ms Rwigara says she will not be deterred: I will not stop. I am going to continue with my preparations. The incident made me stronger, more resilient and determined to continue with this cause, she told The EastAfrican.The photographs were released through an email titled the shameless acts of Diane Shima Rwigara who wants to contest for presidency , with the sender adding look at our presidential candidate . The sender identified himself/herself as Emmy Twahirwa and claimed to be a journalist.Robert Mugabe, a journalist who has reportedly been associated with Ms Rwigara, later stated on Facebook that the photos were doctored and were the work of her detractors.Following that, Ms Rwigara took a few days off the public scene and later told The EastAfrican that the photographs were manipulated.The incident elicited sympathy for the US-educated activist-turned politician, with many condemning the act of shaming her and others called for investigation.BoldNo government agency has commented on the nudes scandal nor has any official come out to publicly condemn the sharing of the photos or denounce the presidential hopeful over her supposed questionable integrity .But Ms Rwigara, who on Wednesday May 10 went to the National Electoral Commission to present the list of people who will sign for her and pick documents needed for the purpose, attracted wide coverage.READ: Diane Rwigara joins race for Rwanda presidencyAs an independent candidate, she must raise 600 signatures, at least 20 from each of the 30 districts. She believes that once she makes it to the ballot, she would make a good case and race against President Paul Kagame, who is widely expected to win the August 4 polls with a landslide. Ms Rwigara, who graduated with a bachelor s degree in finance from the California State University, Sacramento and a master s degree in accounting from California State University, San Francisco, has surprised many with her boldness.On February 23, she held a press conference where she described herself as a concerned Rwandan and activist but denied intending to engage in politics. She highlighted several issues the country was facing that she said needed to be addressed urgently. Among these, she said, were the growing levels of poverty and hunger, which she said the government did not want to recognise, let alone address. I am neither a politician nor a member of any political party, Ms Rwigara told The EastAfrican shortly after the press conference, adding that she decided to speak out about the issues because no one else appeared willing to speak about them. On May 3, she called another press conference, during which she announced her intention to pit candidature against President Kagame.