Mount Kilimanjaro in northern Tanzania is an iconic landmark of Africa: A towering, snow capped mountain just south of the Equator. To many mountaineers and hikers, climbing this mountain is a once in a lifetime adventure. Having been named among the top 28 leading tourist destinations of the world, there is no shortage of modern lodges at the foot of the mountain to cater for climbers and tourists in general. One such place is the newly-established Kilemakyaro Mountain Lodge, targeting mountain climbers. The lodge is located inside a 40-acre coffee and banana farm at Uru-Kifumbu Estate in Uru-Mawella village, on the foothills of the mountain. It can accommodate over 40 tourists at a time. Kilemakyaro Mountain Lodge was once a colonial German homestead, and has now been refurbished and expanded into a luxury lodge. Local experience Tourists who stay in hotels and lodges that have been established in villages get to mingle with the community. Some even get to work in the coffee and banana farms as an added experience of life in the village. According to Joachim Minde, the owner of the lodge, investors in the tourism sector prefer to invest at the village level, yet still provide the same luxury environment for tourists and mountain climbers as that offered by big hotels and resorts in the cities. Also located in the village is Mountain Inn Lodge, with a 37 double-room capacity. The lodge offers visitors to Kilimanjaro a unique village atmosphere. Harshit Shah, the managing director of the lodge, agreed that the new approach is to offer tourists a more serene stay away from cities and urban areas. Mr Shah said tourists find it more meaningful when they spend their holidays with local communities at world class facilities that do not deny them any modern conveniences. Mount Kilimanjaro in northern Tanzania is an iconic landmark of Africa: A towering, snow capped mountain just south of the Equator. To many mountaineers and hikers, climbing this mountain is a once in a lifetime adventure. Having been named among the top 28 leading tourist destinations of the world, there is no shortage of modern lodges at the foot of the mountain to cater for climbers and tourists in general. One such place is the newly-established Kilemakyaro Mountain Lodge, targeting mountain climbers. The lodge is located inside a 40-acre coffee and banana farm at Uru-Kifumbu Estate in Uru-Mawella village, on the foothills of the mountain.It can accommodate over 40 tourists at a time. Kilemakyaro Mountain Lodge was once a colonial German homestead, and has now been refurbished and expanded into a luxury lodge.Local experienceTourists who stay in hotels and lodges that have been established in villages get to mingle with the community. Some even get to work in the coffee and banana farms as an added experience of life in the village.According to Joachim Minde, the owner of the lodge, investors in the tourism sector prefer to invest at the village level, yet still provide the same luxury environment for tourists and mountain climbers as that offered by big hotels and resorts in the cities. Also located in the village is Mountain Inn Lodge, with a 37 double-room capacity. The lodge offers visitors to Kilimanjaro a unique village atmosphere. Harshit Shah, the managing director of the lodge, agreed that the new approach is to offer tourists a more serene stay away from cities and urban areas. Mr Shah said tourists find it more meaningful when they spend their holidays with local communities at world class facilities that do not deny them any modern conveniences.