Management fees have been a controversial issue in East Africa s tax arena, especially where they are charged between associated entities operating in different jurisdictions. East African tax authorities largely consider management fees a mechanism for multinational enterprises (MNEs) to shift profits from their subsidiaries to the parent companies, rather than acknowledging them as genuine payments for beneficial services provided. It is common for regional subsidiaries to receive management services from parent companies and make periodic payments for them. For some, management fees are high as a proportion of their total cost base, particularly where services are provided by a company based in a higher wage economy, such as the United Kingdom. As a result, tax authorities in East Africa take a stringent approach, closely scrutinising management fees during a tax audit to ensure that payments are representative of or commensurate with services received. In a more mature economy, such as the UK, management fee expenses are not viewed with the same level of suspicion, and provided that an MNE can demonstrate that the service recipient is receiving a tangible benefit from the services, Her Majesty s Revenue and Customs (HMRC) will typically accept the management fee as being tax deductible. Due to the advanced nature of the UK economy and its legislation of the new OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action 8-10 on transfer pricing, HMRC has moved its focus to more complex transactions, such as those involving the development and use of intangibles and financing. The general approach during a tax audit would involve a review of the management services contract that is in place, to identify the activities performed, or that should have been performed, conducting interviews with heads of departments to confirm the services received, matching management fees in the financial statements with the amounts indicated in the management service agreement and reviewing the proof of services rendered. In proving whether services were rendered, East African tax authorities follow the general Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development approach, which states that for a service to be rendered, it should provide an economic benefit to the recipient; should not be a shareholder service; should not be duplicative in nature; and should have an appropriate cost base and mark-up. Economic benefit: The audit procedure to verify the economic benefit received by a subsidiary would typically involve a review of third party prices, for the provision of the same or similar services, and calculating the difference between these prices and the group service fee charged. If the activities performed by the service provider are not activities for which an independent entity would have been willing to pay for or perform itself, the tax authority would consider such services as not rendered. Shareholder services: Shareholder services are defined in the OECD guidelines as activities that a group member (usually the parent company or a regional holding company) performs solely because of its ownership interest in one or more other group members or in its capacity as shareholder. The general rule is that costs related to shareholder activities should not be recharged and are generally treated as non-tax deductible when they are recharged. An example of a shareholder activity would be the preparation of group consolidated financial statements or investor reports. Duplicated services: Where a local entity has an employee performing activities that are the same or similar to the activities performed by an employee of a group company under a management services contract, or by a third party, a tax authority may consider this scenario as a duplication of services. Costs associated with duplicated services are generally treated as non-tax deductible. For example, a company that has a fully fledged finance department that also receives a management fee from a group company relating to a finance activity may be challenged on the deductibility of the management fee. In this instance, the tax authorities could request the taxpayer to provide further supporting evidence such as e-mails, reports of the services received, and employment contracts of employees providing management services to support that such services to which management fee pertains provide a benefit and are not duplicative in nature. Cost base: Tax authorities will typically conduct a comprehensive analysis of the service fee cost base. An initial review would involve an examination of the cost base, specifically, the time spent and cost analysis. Where fees are charged using the indirect charge method, the tax authorities would review the appropriateness of the allocation keys used. It is worth noting that a gross up of withholding taxes on the costs charged to a subsidiary, is generally not accepted as deductible by most East African tax authorities, because withholding tax is considered a tax that should be borne by the service provider. Mark-up: Finally, an audit would in most cases be incomplete without a review of the mark-up charged (in situations where the charge to the subsidiary is based on a cost-plus-mark-up approach). While the OECD guidelines consider a mark-up of 5 per cent on low value-adding services to be acceptable without benchmarking, most East African tax authorities require a comprehensive benchmarking analysis to justify the mark-up. East African companies should focus on gathering evidence to demonstrate that management services received from related entities provide a benefit, are not shareholder services and not duplicative in nature. Management fees have been a controversial issue in East Africa s tax arena, especially where they are charged between associated entities operating in different jurisdictions. East African tax authorities largely consider management fees a mechanism for multinational enterprises (MNEs) to shift profits from their subsidiaries to the parent companies, rather than acknowledging them as genuine payments for beneficial services provided.It is common for regional subsidiaries to receive management services from parent companies and make periodic payments for them. For some, management fees are high as a proportion of their total cost base, particularly where services are provided by a company based in a higher wage economy, such as the United Kingdom. As a result, tax authorities in East Africa take a stringent approach, closely scrutinising management fees during a tax audit to ensure that payments are representative of or commensurate with services received.In a more mature economy, such as the UK, management fee expenses are not viewed with the same level of suspicion, and provided that an MNE can demonstrate that the service recipient is receiving a tangible benefit from the services, Her Majesty s Revenue and Customs (HMRC) will typically accept the management fee as being tax deductible. Due to the advanced nature of the UK economy and its legislation of the new OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action 8-10 on transfer pricing, HMRC has moved its focus to more complex transactions, such as those involving the development and use of intangibles and financing.The general approach during a tax audit would involve a review of the management services contract that is in place, to identify the activities performed, or that should have been performed, conducting interviews with heads of departments to confirm the services received, matching management fees in the financial statements with the amounts indicated in the management service agreement and reviewing the proof of services rendered.In proving whether services were rendered, East African tax authorities follow the general Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development approach, which states that for a service to be rendered, it should provide an economic benefit to the recipient; should not be a shareholder service; should not be duplicative in nature; and should have an appropriate cost base and mark-up. Economic benefit: The audit procedure to verify the economic benefit received by a subsidiary would typically involve a review of third party prices, for the provision of the same or similar services, and calculating the difference between these prices and the group service fee charged. If the activities performed by the service provider are not activities for which an independent entity would have been willing to pay for or perform itself, the tax authority would consider such services as not rendered.Shareholder services: Shareholder services are defined in the OECD guidelines as activities that a group member (usually the parent company or a regional holding company) performs solely because of its ownership interest in one or more other group members or in its capacity as shareholder. The general rule is that costs related to shareholder activities should not be recharged and are generally treated as non-tax deductible when they are recharged. An example of a shareholder activity would be the preparation of group consolidated financial statements or investor reports.Duplicated services: Where a local entity has an employee performing activities that are the same or similar to the activities performed by an employee of a group company under a management services contract, or by a third party, a tax authority may consider this scenario as a duplication of services. Costs associated with duplicated services are generally treated as non-tax deductible.For example, a company that has a fully fledged finance department that also receives a management fee from a group company relating to a finance activity may be challenged on the deductibility of the management fee. In this instance, the tax authorities could request the taxpayer to provide further supporting evidence such as e-mails, reports of the services received, and employment contracts of employees providing management services to support that such services to which management fee pertains provide a benefit and are not duplicative in nature.Cost base: Tax authorities will typically conduct a comprehensive analysis of the service fee cost base. An initial review would involve an examination of the cost base, specifically, the time spent and cost analysis. Where fees are charged using the indirect charge method, the tax authorities would review the appropriateness of the allocation keys used. It is worth noting that a gross up of withholding taxes on the costs charged to a subsidiary, is generally not accepted as deductible by most East African tax authorities, because withholding tax is considered a tax that should be borne by the service provider.Mark-up: Finally, an audit would in most cases be incomplete without a review of the mark-up charged (in situations where the charge to the subsidiary is based on a cost-plus-mark-up approach). While the OECD guidelines consider a mark-up of 5 per cent on low value-adding services to be acceptable without benchmarking, most East African tax authorities require a comprehensive benchmarking analysis to justify the mark-up.East African companies should focus on gathering evidence to demonstrate that management services received from related entities provide a benefit, are not shareholder services and not duplicative in nature.