East Africa s governments have to decide whether to open up their airspace to competition or continue protecting national airlines that are struggling to remain airborne. Protectionism, which has been sustaining local carriers, has impeded the growth of the aviation industry and has been blamed for the current exorbitant airfares. And now, regional governments are faced with the hard decision of opening the skies or maintaining the status quo. Although Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi are part of the 44 African states that adopted the Yamoussoukro Declaration, which calls for open skies across the continent, the East Africa Community states have been reluctant to comply for fear of killing local airlines. The Yamoussoukro Declaration, named after the Ivorian city in which it was agreed in 1999, calls for full liberalisation of the intra-African air transport market by removing all restrictions on access, prices, frequency and capacity. But the refusal by the EAC bloc to liberalise regional skies is impacting not only the growth of the sector but also tourism and trade, investment, productivity, employment and economic growth. Benefits of open skies A new study by consulting firm InterVISTAS on the costs and benefits of open skies in the EAC shows that while aviation in other parts of the world has been recording growth due to liberalisation, in the region it is growing at a snail s pace. Over the past decade, intra-EAC traffic has grown by an annual average of 3.4 per cent, compared with an average GDP growth of 7 per cent per annum over the same period. Although other factors such as regulation, taxes and infrastructure have contributed to the slow growth, the failure by governments to open up their skies has denied the region the benefits that come with market-driven competition. Experts say liberalisation of East Africa s airspace would contribute $200 million annually to the bloc s GDP and create an additional 46,320 jobs. Passenger traffic would also increase at an average of 46 per cent annually. Air service liberalisation leads to increased air service levels and lower fares, which in turn stimulates additional traffic volumes and can bring about increased economic growth and employment, said Rick Russell, InterVISTAS vice-president for aviation services. Mr Russell pointed to sectors such as telecommunications, utilities, railways and other sectors, where liberalisation has brought about competition and benefits to the economy. Costly domestic air travel In East Africa, the domestic air transport market remains protected, translating into low accessibility and affordability. Air transport in East Africa is expensive, with high airfares and freight charges, said Lilian Awinja, executive director of the East Africa Business Council. For instance, a return ticket between Dar es Salaam and Bujumbura costs $988, compared with $850 for a return ticket between Dar es Salaam and Dubai, and $1,410 between Dar es Salaam and New York. East Africa s governments have to decide whether to open up their airspace to competition or continue protecting national airlines that are struggling to remain airborne.Protectionism, which has been sustaining local carriers, has impeded the growth of the aviation industry and has been blamed for the current exorbitant airfares. And now, regional governments are faced with the hard decision of opening the skies or maintaining the status quo.Although Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi are part of the 44 African states that adopted the Yamoussoukro Declaration, which calls for open skies across the continent, the East Africa Community states have been reluctant to comply for fear of killing local airlines. The Yamoussoukro Declaration, named after the Ivorian city in which it was agreed in 1999, calls for full liberalisation of the intra-African air transport market by removing all restrictions on access, prices, frequency and capacity. But the refusal by the EAC bloc to liberalise regional skies is impacting not only the growth of the sector but also tourism and trade, investment, productivity, employment and economic growth.Benefits of open skiesA new study by consulting firm InterVISTAS on the costs and benefits of open skies in the EAC shows that while aviation in other parts of the world has been recording growth due to liberalisation, in the region it is growing at a snail s pace.Over the past decade, intra-EAC traffic has grown by an annual average of 3.4 per cent, compared with an average GDP growth of 7 per cent per annum over the same period.Although other factors such as regulation, taxes and infrastructure have contributed to the slow growth, the failure by governments to open up their skies has denied the region the benefits that come with market-driven competition.Experts say liberalisation of East Africa s airspace would contribute $200 million annually to the bloc s GDP and create an additional 46,320 jobs. Passenger traffic would also increase at an average of 46 per cent annually. Air service liberalisation leads to increased air service levels and lower fares, which in turn stimulates additional traffic volumes and can bring about increased economic growth and employment, said Rick Russell, InterVISTAS vice-president for aviation services. Mr Russell pointed to sectors such as telecommunications, utilities, railways and other sectors, where liberalisation has brought about competition and benefits to the economy. Costly domestic air travelIn East Africa, the domestic air transport market remains protected, translating into low accessibility and affordability. Air transport in East Africa is expensive, with high airfares and freight charges, said Lilian Awinja, executive director of the East Africa Business Council. For instance, a return ticket between Dar es Salaam and Bujumbura costs $988, compared with $850 for a return ticket between Dar es Salaam and Dubai, and $1,410 between Dar es Salaam and New York.