I found myself in the dry winter of Johannesburg after a wet and humid Dar es Salaam last week. I did not expect much staying at the Capital Empire Apartments Hotel, attending an annual conference, until I visited the restaurant. It is an impressive all white room with tables all set in white. The tables on this first evening were groaning under an assortment of foods, being a cocktail dinner. For finger foods, it was over the top. The food presentation was magnificent. On offer were platters of baby back pork ribs marinated to perfection glazed with a sweet and sour sauce, in red-brown hues; healthy chunks of meat and vegetable kebabs, mini meat burgers, wraps with sweet and sour fillings, fried potato wedges, and an assortment of fruit on stick skewers. That served as both starters and the meal. There was still dessert; after all, this was a cocktail dinner. I don't consider myself as having a sweet tooth but, I was drawn to the chocolate covered balls with white icing. It turns out to be a mix of cinnamon coffee and chocolate. But they looked better than they tasted. The winner of the night, were the mini open pies with fruit filling. I had three of them although I knew I should not. As a colleague pointed out, When you get back home you ll get back to your healthy routine So that is what I did. I indulged in the hotel s big breakfasts, from the cold meats to muesli, topping it with creamy mushrooms and fresh juice or fruit. I threw myself into the lunch but secretly just wanting to have the dessert only. The chef offered banana muffins, apple and blueberry crumble, New York cheese cake and tiramisu. Next time you are in Jo burg, try the pastry offer at the Capital Empire Apartments Hotel. I found myself in the dry winter of Johannesburg after a wet and humid Dar es Salaam last week. I did not expect much staying at the Capital Empire Apartments Hotel, attending an annual conference, until I visited the restaurant. It is an impressive all white room with tables all set in white. The tables on this first evening were groaning under an assortment of foods, being a cocktail dinner. For finger foods, it was over the top. The food presentation was magnificent. On offer were platters of baby back pork ribs marinated to perfection glazed with a sweet and sour sauce, in red-brown hues; healthy chunks of meat and vegetable kebabs, mini meat burgers, wraps with sweet and sour fillings, fried potato wedges, and an assortment of fruit on stick skewers. That served as both starters and the meal. There was still dessert; after all, this was a cocktail dinner. I don't consider myself as having a sweet tooth but, I was drawn to the chocolate covered balls with white icing. It turns out to be a mix of cinnamon coffee and chocolate. But they looked better than they tasted.The winner of the night, were the mini open pies with fruit filling. I had three of them although I knew I should not. As a colleague pointed out, When you get back home you ll get back to your healthy routine So that is what I did. I indulged in the hotel s big breakfasts, from the cold meats to muesli, topping it with creamy mushrooms and fresh juice or fruit.I threw myself into the lunch but secretly just wanting to have the dessert only. The chef offered banana muffins, apple and blueberry crumble, New York cheese cake and tiramisu. Next time you are in Jo burg, try the pastry offer at the Capital Empire Apartments Hotel.