The decision by Rwanda to increase the price of gorilla trekking permits is likely to benefit its neighbours Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), where the world-famous mountain primates are also found. The Rwanda Development Board (RDB) has increased the fees for both local and international visitors effective from May 6, when the announcement was made. Foreign tourists will now pay double from $750 to $1,500, while locals and East Africans will pay a similar amount from $36.3, an over 4,000 per cent increase. RDB has also introduced a new package for tourists wishing to book an entire family of gorillas at a cost of $15,000. The package includes exclusive personalised tour guide services, it says. The decision to review the charges upwards has elicited concerns from players in the tourism sector, who argue that the new fees will reduce the country s competitiveness. Though the rare primates are most popular in Rwanda, the volcanic Virunga mountains range that is home to the gorillas is also shared by Uganda and the DRC. It is feared that the new rates are likely to force tourists to abandon Rwanda in favour of its neighbours who have not increased their charges. We are targeting high-end tourists. I don t think the low prices in Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo will divert the traffic to those countries, the RDB chief executive Clare Akamanzi told The EastAfrican. Gorilla trekking is a highly unique experience. We have raised the price of permits in order to ensure sustainability of conservation initiatives and enhance visitors experience, she said. She added that fees would also generate more revenues for communities living around the Volcanoes National Park that will fund development projects and empower them economically. Negative impact But the Rwanda Tours and Travel Association (RTTA) said that while it support efforts to conserve the endangered species, the sudden increase of the permit fees will affect the industry adversely. We believe an immediate doubling of gorilla permits will be taken negatively by the market, it will affect our businesses and the entire tourism value chain, and we risk losing substantial revenue for the industry and government as a whole, RTTA said in a statement. The association accused RDB of failing to consult the stakeholders, adding that this will make it hard for the firms to manage the sudden and abrupt change. The concerns were reiterated by the Rwanda Safari Guides Association (RSGA), which expressed its frustration with the new development. The decision by Rwanda to increase the price of gorilla trekking permits is likely to benefit its neighbours Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), where the world-famous mountain primates are also found.The Rwanda Development Board (RDB) has increased the fees for both local and international visitors effective from May 6, when the announcement was made.Foreign tourists will now pay double from $750 to $1,500, while locals and East Africans will pay a similar amount from $36.3, an over 4,000 per cent increase. RDB has also introduced a new package for tourists wishing to book an entire family of gorillas at a cost of $15,000. The package includes exclusive personalised tour guide services, it says.The decision to review the charges upwards has elicited concerns from players in the tourism sector, who argue that the new fees will reduce the country s competitiveness. Though the rare primates are most popular in Rwanda, the volcanic Virunga mountains range that is home to the gorillas is also shared by Uganda and the DRC.It is feared that the new rates are likely to force tourists to abandon Rwanda in favour of its neighbours who have not increased their charges. We are targeting high-end tourists. I don t think the low prices in Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo will divert the traffic to those countries, the RDB chief executive Clare Akamanzi told The EastAfrican. Gorilla trekking is a highly unique experience. We have raised the price of permits in order to ensure sustainability of conservation initiatives and enhance visitors experience, she said.She added that fees would also generate more revenues for communities living around the Volcanoes National Park that will fund development projects and empower them economically. Negative impactBut the Rwanda Tours and Travel Association (RTTA) said that while it support efforts to conserve the endangered species, the sudden increase of the permit fees will affect the industry adversely. We believe an immediate doubling of gorilla permits will be taken negatively by the market, it will affect our businesses and the entire tourism value chain, and we risk losing substantial revenue for the industry and government as a whole, RTTA said in a statement.The association accused RDB of failing to consult the stakeholders, adding that this will make it hard for the firms to manage the sudden and abrupt change. The concerns were reiterated by the Rwanda Safari Guides Association (RSGA), which expressed its frustration with the new development.