Whenever presidential elections are looming on the horizon in any African country, the tendency, with very few exceptions is for commentators and ordinary citizens alike to anticipate trouble and to worry about, not whether there will be violence, but how severe it will be. There is almost never any doubt that there will be rigging and other malpractices. The question is always how much rigging there will be and how voters and the losers will react. In some countries, as I have remarked before in these pages, those who can afford to leave the country do so, just in case, returning only after things have settled down. Those who cannot afford to run away stay behind the high walls surrounding their homes on Election Day. If they do not have such walls, they lock themselves into their houses and follow proceedings via television, radio, and social media. A few days before the polls, supermarket shelves are swept clean of non-perishable foodstuffs, with markets being emptied of whatever fresh food there may be. In other words, the few days preceding elections resemble those preceding Christmas in every sense, in terms of traffic in and out of food stores and markets. Except that where elections are concerned, the rush is motivated by fear, not impending celebration. Holding competitive elections in much of Africa is akin to getting ready for cyclones in countries where they occur, leaving mayhem in their wake. This is why competitive elections in Africa have spawned a whole industry of election observer missions, those perennial junkets that bring all manner of experts into countries to comment on the quality of their elections and democracy, and offer recommendations for how to do better next time. Because it is decided in advance that there is going to be rigging and that chances of losers accepting the results and congratulating the winners are almost non-existent, the observers give hope to some that at least there will be someone to tell the truth about what really happened. But of course perceptive onlookers know that they never get to find out anything the locals can t find out or don t know already. Nor is it the case that their reports, usually couched in highly formulaic and predictable language, make an iota of difference in how subsequent polls are organised and conducted. I have long suggested to whoever has cared to listen, that the only election observer missions that make sense are those that go into countries to observe elections in order to pick up some tips for application back home, or to identify practices they should never avoid in future. The policing types that come to teach lessons and issue strident, sometimes patronising commentary are a waste of time and money, an anachronism on which scarce resources should not be expended. Which is why a recent decision by the European Union not to send a delegation to observe Rwanda s presidential elections on August 4 this year gave me pause for thought. Sources indicate that the National Electoral Commission had already sent the usual invitation and was expecting them to turn up. Officially, the EU has cited lack of resources as the reason they won t be including Rwanda s among the many elections they wish to observe in the near future. Sources privy to the discussions during which the decision was communicated, however, suggest there are other, underlying issues. One, apparently, is the concerns they have about aspects of the country s electoral system and laws, which they say do not allow enough time for independent candidates to mobilise resources and to campaign. Rwanda has easily the shortest campaign period in the world, which is strictly enforced: One month. While it works to the advantage of candidates that have well-developed organisational structures to support their campaigns, it also spares all candidates the burden of having to find money to finance protracted campaigns, which money they may get from dubious sources, some of which lie at the root of runaway corruption in some countries. It is likely that the government of Rwanda, given its independent-minded streak, has dug in on this, forcing the EU to opt out of election observation over what it may want to portray as a matter of principle. Be that as it may, there are also other possible reasons for the decision. For one thing, Rwanda is the one country in the region where impending presidential elections do not cause mass anxiety, let alone leave room for speculation about possible violence or tensions over who has won and whether they were rigged in. Whenever presidential elections are looming on the horizon in any African country, the tendency, with very few exceptions is for commentators and ordinary citizens alike to anticipate trouble and to worry about, not whether there will be violence, but how severe it will be.There is almost never any doubt that there will be rigging and other malpractices. The question is always how much rigging there will be and how voters and the losers will react. In some countries, as I have remarked before in these pages, those who can afford to leave the country do so, just in case, returning only after things have settled down.Those who cannot afford to run away stay behind the high walls surrounding their homes on Election Day. If they do not have such walls, they lock themselves into their houses and follow proceedings via television, radio, and social media. A few days before the polls, supermarket shelves are swept clean of non-perishable foodstuffs, with markets being emptied of whatever fresh food there may be. In other words, the few days preceding elections resemble those preceding Christmas in every sense, in terms of traffic in and out of food stores and markets. Except that where elections are concerned, the rush is motivated by fear, not impending celebration.Holding competitive elections in much of Africa is akin to getting ready for cyclones in countries where they occur, leaving mayhem in their wake.This is why competitive elections in Africa have spawned a whole industry of election observer missions, those perennial junkets that bring all manner of experts into countries to comment on the quality of their elections and democracy, and offer recommendations for how to do better next time. Because it is decided in advance that there is going to be rigging and that chances of losers accepting the results and congratulating the winners are almost non-existent, the observers give hope to some that at least there will be someone to tell the truth about what really happened. But of course perceptive onlookers know that they never get to find out anything the locals can t find out or don t know already. Nor is it the case that their reports, usually couched in highly formulaic and predictable language, make an iota of difference in how subsequent polls are organised and conducted. I have long suggested to whoever has cared to listen, that the only election observer missions that make sense are those that go into countries to observe elections in order to pick up some tips for application back home, or to identify practices they should never avoid in future. The policing types that come to teach lessons and issue strident, sometimes patronising commentary are a waste of time and money, an anachronism on which scarce resources should not be expended.Which is why a recent decision by the European Union not to send a delegation to observe Rwanda s presidential elections on August 4 this year gave me pause for thought. Sources indicate that the National Electoral Commission had already sent the usual invitation and was expecting them to turn up. Officially, the EU has cited lack of resources as the reason they won t be including Rwanda s among the many elections they wish to observe in the near future. Sources privy to the discussions during which the decision was communicated, however, suggest there are other, underlying issues. One, apparently, is the concerns they have about aspects of the country s electoral system and laws, which they say do not allow enough time for independent candidates to mobilise resources and to campaign. Rwanda has easily the shortest campaign period in the world, which is strictly enforced: One month. While it works to the advantage of candidates that have well-developed organisational structures to support their campaigns, it also spares all candidates the burden of having to find money to finance protracted campaigns, which money they may get from dubious sources, some of which lie at the root of runaway corruption in some countries. It is likely that the government of Rwanda, given its independent-minded streak, has dug in on this, forcing the EU to opt out of election observation over what it may want to portray as a matter of principle. Be that as it may, there are also other possible reasons for the decision. For one thing, Rwanda is the one country in the region where impending presidential elections do not cause mass anxiety, let alone leave room for speculation about possible violence or tensions over who has won and whether they were rigged in.