A fast-moving wave of cyberattacks swept the globe Friday, apparently exploiting a flaw exposed in documents leaked from the US National Security Agency. The attacks came in the form of ransomware, a technique used by hackers that locks users' files unless they pay the attackers a designated sum in the virtual currency Bitcoin. The scope of the attacks was not immediately clear, but some analysts reported that dozens of countries had been affected, with the malware linked to attacks on hospitals in Britain as well as the Spanish telecom giant Telefonica and the US delivery firm FedEx. The US Department of Homeland Security's computer emergency response team said it was aware of ransomware infections "in several countries around the world." "We are now seeing more than 75,000 detections... in 99 countries," Jakub Kroustek of the security firm Avast said in a blog post around 2000 GMT. Earlier, Kaspersky researcher Costin Raiu cited 45,000 attacks in 74 countries, saying that the malware, a self-replicating "worm," was spreading quickly. Forcepoint Security Labs said that "a major malicious email campaign" consisting of nearly five million emails per hour was spreading the new ransomware. The malware's name is WCry, but analysts were also using variants such as WannaCry. Forcepoint said in a statement that the attack had "global scope", affecting organisations in Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy and Mexico. In the United States, FedEx acknowledged it had been hit by malware and was "implementing remediation steps as quickly as possible." The UK's state-run National Health Service declared a "major incident" after the attack, which forced some hospitals to divert ambulances and scrap operations. In Spain, major firms including Telefonica were hit, with employees told to shut down workstations immediately through megaphone announcements. 'Direcy infection' At least 16 organisations within the NHS, some of them responsible for several hospitals each, reported being targeted. "We are aware that a number of NHS organisations have reported that they have suffered from a ransomware attack. This is not targeted at the NHS, it's an international attack and a number of countries and organisations have been affected," said Prime Minister Theresa May. A fast-moving wave of cyberattacks swept the globe Friday, apparently exploiting a flaw exposed in documents leaked from the US National Security Agency.The attacks came in the form of ransomware, a technique used by hackers that locks users' files unless they pay the attackers a designated sum in the virtual currency Bitcoin.The scope of the attacks was not immediately clear, but some analysts reported that dozens of countries had been affected, with the malware linked to attacks on hospitals in Britain as well as the Spanish telecom giant Telefonica and the US delivery firm FedEx.The US Department of Homeland Security's computer emergency response team said it was aware of ransomware infections "in several countries around the world.""We are now seeing more than 75,000 detections... in 99 countries," Jakub Kroustek of the security firm Avast said in a blog post around 2000 GMT.Earlier, Kaspersky researcher Costin Raiu cited 45,000 attacks in 74 countries, saying that the malware, a self-replicating "worm," was spreading quickly.Forcepoint Security Labs said that "a major malicious email campaign" consisting of nearly five million emails per hour was spreading the new ransomware.The malware's name is WCry, but analysts were also using variants such as WannaCry.Forcepoint said in a statement that the attack had "global scope", affecting organisations in Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy and Mexico.In the United States, FedEx acknowledged it had been hit by malware and was "implementing remediation steps as quickly as possible."The UK's state-run National Health Service declared a "major incident" after the attack, which forced some hospitals to divert ambulances and scrap operations.In Spain, major firms including Telefonica were hit, with employees told to shut down workstations immediately through megaphone announcements.'Direcy infection'At least 16 organisations within the NHS, some of them responsible for several hospitals each, reported being targeted."We are aware that a number of NHS organisations have reported that they have suffered from a ransomware attack. This is not targeted at the NHS, it's an international attack and a number of countries and organisations have been affected," said Prime Minister Theresa May.