The Chinese Great Wall Restaurant is located on the hilly terrain of the Kimihurura neighbourhood. The restaurant was established in Kigali 18 years ago, and is the city s most popular Chinese restaurant. The restaurant has a top chef from China who prepares a wide variety of Chinese food. The restaurant has a red and gold theme, the same colours as the flag of China. The chairs and tablecloths are crimson red, and the murals on the walls are of Chinese cities Guangzhou, Shanghai, Beijing and Hangzhou providing an apt backdrop for the tranquil ambience. Leafy green plants in vases keep the air fresh. The Coup -D cal music from Cote d Ivoire playing in the background took me by surprise as I didn t expect to hear it at a Chinese restaurant. In addition to the traditional Chinese dishes of fried rice and noodles with an assortment of vegetables or meat, the restaurant has a wide variety of seafood fish fillet, stir-fried cuttlefish, deep-fried squid rings, shredded squid and shrimp. For vegetarians, there are mushrooms, green beans, Chinese cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli and tofu on offer. The starters include black fungus with mustard, marinated cucumber, vegetable salads and fried peanuts. I had the spicy beef, which was skewered with toothpicks. The beef was crunchy and not as tender as I expected but was tasty. The restaurant also has a full bar and a barista satisfying customers with all kinds of coffee, juice and blended drinks. The Chinese Great Wall Restaurant is located on the hilly terrain of the Kimihurura neighbourhood. The restaurant was established in Kigali 18 years ago, and is the city s most popular Chinese restaurant. The restaurant has a top chef from China who prepares a wide variety of Chinese food. The restaurant has a red and gold theme, the same colours as the flag of China. The chairs and tablecloths are crimson red, and the murals on the walls are of Chinese cities Guangzhou, Shanghai, Beijing and Hangzhou providing an apt backdrop for the tranquil ambience. Leafy green plants in vases keep the air fresh. The Coup -D cal music from Cote d Ivoire playing in the background took me by surprise as I didn t expect to hear it at a Chinese restaurant. In addition to the traditional Chinese dishes of fried rice and noodles with an assortment of vegetables or meat, the restaurant has a wide variety of seafood fish fillet, stir-fried cuttlefish, deep-fried squid rings, shredded squid and shrimp. For vegetarians, there are mushrooms, green beans, Chinese cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli and tofu on offer. The starters include black fungus with mustard, marinated cucumber, vegetable salads and fried peanuts. I had the spicy beef, which was skewered with toothpicks. The beef was crunchy and not as tender as I expected but was tasty. The restaurant also has a full bar and a barista satisfying customers with all kinds of coffee, juice and blended drinks.