The 18th East African Community Heads of State Summit finally took place in Dar es Salaam last week, after being put off three times. At one point, Burundi requested postponement to remember the assassination of president Cyprien Ntaryamira, when the plane of Rwanda s Juvenal Habyarimana was shot down near Kigali in 1994. Another was put off to allow Kenya to complete its party primaries ahead of the General Election in August. The reasons sound plausible, but Burundi s Assassination Day and the dates for party primaries in Kenya were known well before the Summit dates were set. So, were these the real reasons for rescheduling? Sceptics suspect deeper problems. Interpersonal relations between the EAC heads of state seem uneasy, if not sour. Rwanda feels that Burundi s Pierre Nkurunziza is stoking a regional crisis. A majority of the nearly 400,000 people said to have fled Burundi are Tutsis, and many have gone to Rwanda. President Nkurunziza s practices echo rather uncomfortably and personally for President Paul Kagame the Hutu-led anti-Tutsi pogroms in the late 1950s and early 1960s in Rwanda that forced him and his family into exile. President Uhuru Kenyatta was miffed that the EAC was lukewarm even hostile to Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed s candidacy for the chair of the African Union Commission. Kenya suspects that Burundi and Tanzania abandoned Amina while Uganda says it stuck with her. Nairobi is sceptical. Blowing hot and cold Tanzania and Kenya have been in a zero-sum race for the infrastructure corridor of the EAC. But Nairobi recently lost that race, when Kigali and Kampala abandoned the previously agreed rail and pipeline routing through Kenya for the Tanzanian alternative. In foreign policy, the Community is sharply divided: Rwanda and Kenya have signed the Economic Partnership Agreement with the European Union while Tanzania and Uganda are holding out, citing national interest. Burundi is under EU sanctions, and is presumably EPA-ineligible as a result. When the talks with the EU began, South Sudan was not a member of the bloc. For reasons personal to Presidents Kenyatta and Nkurunziza, Kenya and Burundi do not like the International Criminal Court (ICC): Burundi has pulled out; Kenya threatens to pull out; Tanzania says it won t pull out; Uganda attacks the Court but President Museveni has referred Joseph Kony and the high command of the Lord s Resistance Army to the court suggesting he is hot for one purpose and cold for another, as it suits him. Rwanda is not party to the Rome Statute. In this web of sometimes over-lapping and conflicting interests, common ground is hard to find. It will not get any easier when Somalia joins the bloc. Ethiopia, which needs larger markets for its growing economy, is waiting backstage and regularly observes EAC meetings. If it does join, its complicated relationship with Somalia would add stress to an already strained Community. Ebullient versus brusque To put the EAC s strains into perspective, consider how the Summit s communiqu s have changed in a decade. In the early days, they were ebullient and exultant; now they are brusque, even despondent. Start, randomly, with the communiqu from the 8th summit in 2006. It is a 10-page document ringing with positive and vigorous words like historic, commendable and successful. Highly commended appears eight times; applauded four times and noted with satisfaction 10 times. This was a summit on a roll, happy with its achievements and so self-assured that it admitted two new members at a go Rwanda and Burundi. Their one serious concern was a then live lawsuit in the Dar High Court between the East African Development Bank and Blueline Enterprises. Blueline had sued the EADB, and two months to the summit it had got a court order to attach $68,546,653 of EABD s money in a Standard Chartered account in Dar es Salaam. The High Court rejected EABD s plea that it had immunity under its founding instruments and it is this that was causing the serious concern. EADB won the case on appeal in 2011. The 18th East African Community Heads of State Summit finally took place in Dar es Salaam last week, after being put off three times. At one point, Burundi requested postponement to remember the assassination of president Cyprien Ntaryamira, when the plane of Rwanda s Juvenal Habyarimana was shot down near Kigali in 1994. Another was put off to allow Kenya to complete its party primaries ahead of the General Election in August. The reasons sound plausible, but Burundi s Assassination Day and the dates for party primaries in Kenya were known well before the Summit dates were set. So, were these the real reasons for rescheduling? Sceptics suspect deeper problems. Interpersonal relations between the EAC heads of state seem uneasy, if not sour. Rwanda feels that Burundi s Pierre Nkurunziza is stoking a regional crisis. A majority of the nearly 400,000 people said to have fled Burundi are Tutsis, and many have gone to Rwanda. President Nkurunziza s practices echo rather uncomfortably and personally for President Paul Kagame the Hutu-led anti-Tutsi pogroms in the late 1950s and early 1960s in Rwanda that forced him and his family into exile. President Uhuru Kenyatta was miffed that the EAC was lukewarm even hostile to Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed s candidacy for the chair of the African Union Commission. Kenya suspects that Burundi and Tanzania abandoned Amina while Uganda says it stuck with her. Nairobi is sceptical. Blowing hot and coldTanzania and Kenya have been in a zero-sum race for the infrastructure corridor of the EAC. But Nairobi recently lost that race, when Kigali and Kampala abandoned the previously agreed rail and pipeline routing through Kenya for the Tanzanian alternative. In foreign policy, the Community is sharply divided: Rwanda and Kenya have signed the Economic Partnership Agreement with the European Union while Tanzania and Uganda are holding out, citing national interest. Burundi is under EU sanctions, and is presumably EPA-ineligible as a result. When the talks with the EU began, South Sudan was not a member of the bloc. For reasons personal to Presidents Kenyatta and Nkurunziza, Kenya and Burundi do not like the International Criminal Court (ICC): Burundi has pulled out; Kenya threatens to pull out; Tanzania says it won t pull out; Uganda attacks the Court but President Museveni has referred Joseph Kony and the high command of the Lord s Resistance Army to the court suggesting he is hot for one purpose and cold for another, as it suits him. Rwanda is not party to the Rome Statute. In this web of sometimes over-lapping and conflicting interests, common ground is hard to find. It will not get any easier when Somalia joins the bloc. Ethiopia, which needs larger markets for its growing economy, is waiting backstage and regularly observes EAC meetings. If it does join, its complicated relationship with Somalia would add stress to an already strained Community. Ebullient versus brusqueTo put the EAC s strains into perspective, consider how the Summit s communiqu s have changed in a decade. In the early days, they were ebullient and exultant; now they are brusque, even despondent. Start, randomly, with the communiqu from the 8th summit in 2006. It is a 10-page document ringing with positive and vigorous words like historic, commendable and successful. Highly commended appears eight times; applauded four times and noted with satisfaction 10 times. This was a summit on a roll, happy with its achievements and so self-assured that it admitted two new members at a go Rwanda and Burundi. Their one serious concern was a then live lawsuit in the Dar High Court between the East African Development Bank and Blueline Enterprises. Blueline had sued the EADB, and two months to the summit it had got a court order to attach $68,546,653 of EABD s money in a Standard Chartered account in Dar es Salaam.The High Court rejected EABD s plea that it had immunity under its founding instruments and it is this that was causing the serious concern. EADB won the case on appeal in 2011.