Renegade soldiers wounded six people in Cote d'Ivoire's second-largest city on Sunday as they fired warning shots into the air to keep people in their homes, an AFP journalist reported. A mother of three children and five men were brought to hospital in the central city of Bouake after being shot by the rebels, who took to the streets Friday in a protest over pay. The soldiers had already shot and wounded one person Saturday as they blocked access to the city, while another person was injured by soldiers rebelling in Korhogo, the main city in the country's north. Took up positions Defiant soldiers have also rebelled in the central city of Daloa, a trading centre. On Sunday, the rebel soldiers in Bouake took up positions in a square in front of the police headquarters, shooting into the air to prevent residents gathering for a planned protest against the rebels' actions. "The shooting continues. The mutineers aren't letting people leave their homes to demonstrate," said a resident who requested anonymity. Extorting money "There's too much shooting this morning, it's practically impossible to go and attend mass. I'll pray with my family at home," another resident, Jean Yves Kobena, said. The soldiers posted at the four main access points to Bouake have also been extorting money from drivers hoping to cross the city, stopping most traffic in and out of Bouake. Soldiers also rebelled in the economic capital of Abidjan on Friday, surrounding military headquarters in the city before being driven back by loyalist forces. Military commanders Bouake was the epicentre of a mutiny in January by former rebel soldiers who had been integrated into the army. Negotiations Saturday between the rebels and military commanders in Bouake failed to end the blockade of the city, and rebels warned they would fight back if the army tried to intervene. "They can send whoever they want. We're ready," one of several masked soldiers at one checkpoint told AFP on Saturday. Renegade soldiers wounded six people in Cote d'Ivoire's second-largest city on Sunday as they fired warning shots into the air to keep people in their homes, an AFP journalist reported.A mother of three children and five men were brought to hospital in the central city of Bouake after being shot by the rebels, who took to the streets Friday in a protest over pay.The soldiers had already shot and wounded one person Saturday as they blocked access to the city, while another person was injured by soldiers rebelling in Korhogo, the main city in the country's north.Took up positionsDefiant soldiers have also rebelled in the central city of Daloa, a trading centre.On Sunday, the rebel soldiers in Bouake took up positions in a square in front of the police headquarters, shooting into the air to prevent residents gathering for a planned protest against the rebels' actions."The shooting continues. The mutineers aren't letting people leave their homes to demonstrate," said a resident who requested anonymity.Extorting money"There's too much shooting this morning, it's practically impossible to go and attend mass. I'll pray with my family at home," another resident, Jean Yves Kobena, said.The soldiers posted at the four main access points to Bouake have also been extorting money from drivers hoping to cross the city, stopping most traffic in and out of Bouake.Soldiers also rebelled in the economic capital of Abidjan on Friday, surrounding military headquarters in the city before being driven back by loyalist forces.Military commandersBouake was the epicentre of a mutiny in January by former rebel soldiers who had been integrated into the army.Negotiations Saturday between the rebels and military commanders in Bouake failed to end the blockade of the city, and rebels warned they would fight back if the army tried to intervene."They can send whoever they want. We're ready," one of several masked soldiers at one checkpoint told AFP on Saturday.