I think I can safely divulge this. On a plane trip out of the country, I once had the privilege of enjoying a small-talk with Julius Nyerere, who looked truly relaxed. I was reading a European magazine with a cover story on Jacques Chirac s loss of a snap election he had himself called. I asked Mwalimu what his take was on the French president s calling of an early election that was not forced on him, and then losing it. Nyerere put aside the book he had been reading, looked up and chuckled in that particular way of his. You know these wazungu You see them in their big suits, they exude power and confidence, and some intelligence, but sometimes there is not in fact much intelligence. You have to respect them, because they have the economic might, but that does not make them intelligent individually." Look, what Chirac told the French people is this: Listen, I intend to carry out important changes in my economic policies very soon, but I know that if I carry out my new policies and then we go to the polls, you will reject me. So, I have decided to call an early election, and after the election, when you have re-elected me, that is when I will implement my new policies . He laughed so heartily he had to wipe tears from his eyes, then said, Who would vote for you? It would take a whole nation of fools to vote for you so that you can then implement a programme that you know they are against. Donald Trump does not fall exactly in the Chirac mould, but he may not be very far off. At least his political intelligence is not much higher than the Frenchman s. Last year he ran a campaign in which he said some disobliging things about the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, calling it obsolete and ineffective. This past week he found himself in Brussels praising the alliance, and wanting in to fight terrorism. Some weeks ago, he seemed to suggest that Nato had indeed become obsolete but we talked, and after that it ceased being obsolete. A little touch of Trump magic, I suppose. On the same trip Trump has had to eat humble pie and meet up with leaders of Muslim and Arab nations, putting behind him the campaign-time rhetoric about Muslims being anti-American as well as his attempted travel ban on several Muslim-majority nations. He goes back home to a Washington that continues to be rocked by revelation after revelation of his people having been too close to the Russians and having failed to reveal these contacts when they were required to do so for their security clearance. You do not have to believe Julius Nyerere about big suits and little intelligence to see that, if he knew all along that the Russian monkey would possibly choose to perch on his back, he should never have called on Vladimir Putin to hack Hillary Clintons e-mails, for whatever reason. But, incredibly, he did. I think I can safely divulge this.On a plane trip out of the country, I once had the privilege of enjoying a small-talk with Julius Nyerere, who looked truly relaxed. I was reading a European magazine with a cover story on Jacques Chirac s loss of a snap election he had himself called. I asked Mwalimu what his take was on the French president s calling of an early election that was not forced on him, and then losing it. Nyerere put aside the book he had been reading, looked up and chuckled in that particular way of his. You know these wazungu You see them in their big suits, they exude power and confidence, and some intelligence, but sometimes there is not in fact much intelligence. You have to respect them, because they have the economic might, but that does not make them intelligent individually." Look, what Chirac told the French people is this: Listen, I intend to carry out important changes in my economic policies very soon, but I know that if I carry out my new policies and then we go to the polls, you will reject me. So, I have decided to call an early election, and after the election, when you have re-elected me, that is when I will implement my new policies . He laughed so heartily he had to wipe tears from his eyes, then said, Who would vote for you? It would take a whole nation of fools to vote for you so that you can then implement a programme that you know they are against. Donald Trump does not fall exactly in the Chirac mould, but he may not be very far off. At least his political intelligence is not much higher than the Frenchman s. Last year he ran a campaign in which he said some disobliging things about the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, calling it obsolete and ineffective.This past week he found himself in Brussels praising the alliance, and wanting in to fight terrorism. Some weeks ago, he seemed to suggest that Nato had indeed become obsolete but we talked, and after that it ceased being obsolete. A little touch of Trump magic, I suppose.On the same trip Trump has had to eat humble pie and meet up with leaders of Muslim and Arab nations, putting behind him the campaign-time rhetoric about Muslims being anti-American as well as his attempted travel ban on several Muslim-majority nations.He goes back home to a Washington that continues to be rocked by revelation after revelation of his people having been too close to the Russians and having failed to reveal these contacts when they were required to do so for their security clearance.You do not have to believe Julius Nyerere about big suits and little intelligence to see that, if he knew all along that the Russian monkey would possibly choose to perch on his back, he should never have called on Vladimir Putin to hack Hillary Clintons e-mails, for whatever reason. But, incredibly, he did.