The Judiciary has introduced the Integrated Electronic Case Management System (IECMS), which allows judges and court registrars to work even if they lose Internet connection. According to officials, the system is intended to remedy shortcomings related to weak Internet connectivity, which was blamed for bad service delivery. Since the introduction of IECMS in 2016 we have been receiving feedback from judges and court registrars, and it was clear that loss of Internet connection was sometimes delaying their work, and frustrating clients, said Fred Gashemeza, the director-general of the ICT Department in the Supreme Court. READ: Rwanda judiciary turns to web-based filing of cases The ICT department says it has developed a Virtual Private Network that will allow those in the judiciary network to access the case files offline. With the current settings, judges would sometimes delay hearings for as long as 30 minutes when the Internet was cut off or slow. The new system will address this problem. according to Mr Gashemeza. Chief Justice Sam Rugege, announced the use of this system in the recent Labour Day celebrations. He hailed the achievements registered by the judiciary since the adoption of the web-based case management system. The achievements include reducing delays and transaction costs associated with the process of judicial cases from filing a case to its final judgement. The web-based system links courts to citizens and advocates as well as to other four government institutions related to the justice sector namely the Ministry of Justice, National Public Prosecution Authority, Criminal Investigation Department and the Rwanda Correctional Services. The IECMS was launched in December 2015 and started being used in January 2016 in Kigali City courts and all commercial courts. It is now used in 45 courts out of 83 countrywide, according to officials in the judiciary. The Supreme Court says the system will be extended to the remaining courts before the end of this year. Staff from 19 primary courts are currently undergoing an intensive one week training on the use of this system, and other staff will get the same training, said Mr Gashemeza, adding, After the training we will be ready to roll out the system in all the court because the infrastructure is already in place. The Judiciary has introduced the Integrated Electronic Case Management System (IECMS), which allows judges and court registrars to work even if they lose Internet connection.According to officials, the system is intended to remedy shortcomings related to weak Internet connectivity, which was blamed for bad service delivery. Since the introduction of IECMS in 2016 we have been receiving feedback from judges and court registrars, and it was clear that loss of Internet connection was sometimes delaying their work, and frustrating clients, said Fred Gashemeza, the director-general of the ICT Department in the Supreme Court.READ: Rwanda judiciary turns to web-based filing of casesThe ICT department says it has developed a Virtual Private Network that will allow those in the judiciary network to access the case files offline. With the current settings, judges would sometimes delay hearings for as long as 30 minutes when the Internet was cut off or slow. The new system will address this problem. according to Mr Gashemeza.Chief Justice Sam Rugege, announced the use of this system in the recent Labour Day celebrations. He hailed the achievements registered by the judiciary since the adoption of the web-based case management system. The achievements include reducing delays and transaction costs associated with the process of judicial cases from filing a case to its final judgement. The web-based system links courts to citizens and advocates as well as to other four government institutions related to the justice sector namely the Ministry of Justice, National Public Prosecution Authority, Criminal Investigation Department and the Rwanda Correctional Services.The IECMS was launched in December 2015 and started being used in January 2016 in Kigali City courts and all commercial courts. It is now used in 45 courts out of 83 countrywide, according to officials in the judiciary. The Supreme Court says the system will be extended to the remaining courts before the end of this year. Staff from 19 primary courts are currently undergoing an intensive one week training on the use of this system, and other staff will get the same training, said Mr Gashemeza, adding, After the training we will be ready to roll out the system in all the court because the infrastructure is already in place. 