Uganda s national identity card has suddenly overtaken the passport in prestige and importance. It took only one directive by the Uganda Communications Commission to the effect that all mobile phone Sim cards be re-registered using the subscriber s ID number, failing which the phone line will be permanently disconnected. And the directive was very clear for nationals, only the national ID would be used. Overnight, the once prestigious document called a passport lost almost all its weight. When the national ID was launched in 2015, the government encouraged, pleaded with, threatened and cajoled people to register for the document but many were not bothered. There was a general election coming in 2016 and the general impression was that those without the national ID would not be allowed to vote. But many cynical Ugandans who are tired just welcomed the lack of an ID as a good excuse not to vote. The president general of the country s oldest party, Norbert Mao of the Democratic Party, could not secure a nomination to run for president because he did not have a national ID. Many Ugandan elites and other busy people feel they could get by without an ID as long as they can produce their passport where critical identification is needed. And a passport is issued after even more rigorous vetting than the national ID. Besides, they also have driving permits, which are also issued by the government and are acceptable identification documents in places like banks. And then the most annoying clarification came from the UCC people a passport is a travel document, not an identity card, and a driving permit is a permit to drive, not an identification document. As the queues for Sim card re-registration at the different service centres grew longer, the word passport became almost vulgar. Try to produce one and the staff at the counters would look at you like a suspected terrorist. As for online registration, the system only accepts the 14-digit national ID number while a passport number has eight characters and it is in any case not recognisable in the ID database. Foreign nationals only can use a passport or refugee card to register. The exercise is going to go on for a month and then, according to the official threats, all lines not re-registered will be permanently disconnected. If there is one thing the ongoing rush to register for the national ID has proved, it is that people need their mobile phones. As they go through the strenuous process, many people admit ruefully that they can no longer defy the government on getting the ID. Some digitally inclined people have tried to live without Sim cards, which is possible, but has limitations. For now, individual digital data credit is only loaded on a phone line. A smartphone can run all the Internet applications programmed on it without a Sim card where there is open Wi-Fi, but away from such a zone, you can t beat the government. But phones are not just for talking and communicating. They play the most crucial role in mobile money transactions. Like elsewhere in the region, mobile money is several times bigger than banking as far as transfer of funds is concerned. The creation of mobile money several years ago effectively turned every phone account into a bank account. Having your number disconnected permanently means being expelled from the biggest banking network where everybody else is. No wonder, once national ID registration was tied to operating a mobile phone, everybody rushed to become a compliant citizen. Joachim Buwembo is a social and political commentator based in Kampala. E-mail: [email&#160;protected] Uganda s national identity card has suddenly overtaken the passport in prestige and importance. It took only one directive by the Uganda Communications Commission to the effect that all mobile phone Sim cards be re-registered using the subscriber s ID number, failing which the phone line will be permanently disconnected. And the directive was very clear for nationals, only the national ID would be used.Overnight, the once prestigious document called a passport lost almost all its weight.When the national ID was launched in 2015, the government encouraged, pleaded with, threatened and cajoled people to register for the document but many were not bothered. There was a general election coming in 2016 and the general impression was that those without the national ID would not be allowed to vote. But many cynical Ugandans who are tired just welcomed the lack of an ID as a good excuse not to vote.The president general of the country s oldest party, Norbert Mao of the Democratic Party, could not secure a nomination to run for president because he did not have a national ID.Many Ugandan elites and other busy people feel they could get by without an ID as long as they can produce their passport where critical identification is needed. And a passport is issued after even more rigorous vetting than the national ID. Besides, they also have driving permits, which are also issued by the government and are acceptable identification documents in places like banks.And then the most annoying clarification came from the UCC people a passport is a travel document, not an identity card, and a driving permit is a permit to drive, not an identification document.As the queues for Sim card re-registration at the different service centres grew longer, the word passport became almost vulgar. Try to produce one and the staff at the counters would look at you like a suspected terrorist. As for online registration, the system only accepts the 14-digit national ID number while a passport number has eight characters and it is in any case not recognisable in the ID database.Foreign nationals only can use a passport or refugee card to register. The exercise is going to go on for a month and then, according to the official threats, all lines not re-registered will be permanently disconnected.If there is one thing the ongoing rush to register for the national ID has proved, it is that people need their mobile phones. As they go through the strenuous process, many people admit ruefully that they can no longer defy the government on getting the ID. Some digitally inclined people have tried to live without Sim cards, which is possible, but has limitations. For now, individual digital data credit is only loaded on a phone line. A smartphone can run all the Internet applications programmed on it without a Sim card where there is open Wi-Fi, but away from such a zone, you can t beat the government.But phones are not just for talking and communicating. They play the most crucial role in mobile money transactions. Like elsewhere in the region, mobile money is several times bigger than banking as far as transfer of funds is concerned. The creation of mobile money several years ago effectively turned every phone account into a bank account. Having your number disconnected permanently means being expelled from the biggest banking network where everybody else is.No wonder, once national ID registration was tied to operating a mobile phone, everybody rushed to become a compliant citizen.Joachim Buwembo is a social and political commentator based in Kampala. E-mail: [email&#160;protected]