Stephen Asiimwe, who became the chief executive officer of the Uganda Tourism Board in February 2014, told The EastAfrican that he became interested in tourism promotion when he realised that Uganda s intrinsic quality has a lot to offer to the rest of the world. As to why he finds tourism promotion exciting, Asiimwe says: Because tourism is an easy thing to buy and sell. It is a product that everybody would buy because we sell experiences. He singles out inadequate funding of the tourism sector as the biggest challenge facing tourism promotion in Uganda. Asiimwe is a consultant with rich experience in leadership, management, marketing, human resource and journalism. As to his greatest professional achievement to date, Asiimwe says: I have done very many things farming, media, education and tourism promotion. Everything I do I give it my best. He has built two media companies that are now present in six East African countries. These are the East African Procurement News as editor in chief and managing director and editor in chief of the East African Business Week. He began his career with Uganda s leading newspaper, New Vision, as a business journalist with a passion for travel writing. Asiimwe holds a BA in Political Science and Sociology from Makerere University, a post-graduate training in management, media, education, marketing and also has an Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters awarded to him by the United Graduate College and Seminary, based in Tennessee in the US in December 2008. He is pursuing an MA in organisational leadership offered by Development Associates International and the Uganda Christian University. -------------------------------------------- What is your off-duty passion? I am a social person and I love to meet and interact with people. My job makes it easy for me to hang out with friends for coffee and also meet people. What would you have been if you were not in tourism? I would have been a motivational speaker and life coach. What signifies your personal style? Stephen Asiimwe, who became the chief executive officer of the Uganda Tourism Board in February 2014, told The EastAfrican that he became interested in tourism promotion when he realised that Uganda s intrinsic quality has a lot to offer to the rest of the world.As to why he finds tourism promotion exciting, Asiimwe says: Because tourism is an easy thing to buy and sell. It is a product that everybody would buy because we sell experiences. He singles out inadequate funding of the tourism sector as the biggest challenge facing tourism promotion in Uganda.Asiimwe is a consultant with rich experience in leadership, management, marketing, human resource and journalism.As to his greatest professional achievement to date, Asiimwe says: I have done very many things farming, media, education and tourism promotion. Everything I do I give it my best. He has built two media companies that are now present in six East African countries. These are the East African Procurement News as editor in chief and managing director and editor in chief of the East African Business Week.He began his career with Uganda s leading newspaper, New Vision, as a business journalist with a passion for travel writing.Asiimwe holds a BA in Political Science and Sociology from Makerere University, a post-graduate training in management, media, education, marketing and also has an Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters awarded to him by the United Graduate College and Seminary, based in Tennessee in the US in December 2008.He is pursuing an MA in organisational leadership offered by Development Associates International and the Uganda Christian University. --------------------------------------------What is your off-duty passion?I am a social person and I love to meet and interact with people. My job makes it easy for me to hang out with friends for coffee and also meet people. What would you have been if you were not in tourism? I would have been a motivational speaker and life coach.What signifies your personal style?