It was the promise of education in Addis Ababa that led 11-year-old Embet to take the fateful decision to leave home. The young girl from Debat, a small town in Ethiopia's Amhara region, packed up and left for the capital in the company of her older neighbour, who said that her relatives there would welcome her into their home, pay her 200 Ethiopian birr ($8) a month to look after their young children, and send her to school. "I thought I would enjoy Addis," said Embet, tearfully. "The woman told me fancy things about it. I thought everything would be okay." But it wasn't. Despite the promises, Embet was never paid by her neighbour's relatives, and she was never sent to school. She slept on a mattress in the living room, was barely fed, and suffered abuse at the hands of her employers. "I had to do everything," she said, including cleaning, cooking, and looking after the family's young children. After two months living with the family, Embet fled - walking the streets of Addis Ababa until she was found and taken to the local police station. Human trafficking Embet's story is far from unusual: she is one of thousands of girls from all over Ethiopia who are trafficked to Addis Ababa to work in domestic service, some ending up in conditions comparable to slavery. More than 400,000 Ethiopians are estimated to be trapped in slavery, according to the 2016 Global Slavery Index by human rights group Walk Free Foundation. The industry is fed by one of the world's highest rates of human trafficking. Each year, upwards of 20,000 Ethiopian children, some as young as 10, are sold by their parents, according to Humanium, a children's charity. It is a trade driven by poverty. Despite a state-led industrial push that has transformed Ethiopia, known for famine, into one of Africa's fastest-growing economies, a third of its 99 million citizens still survive on less than $1.90 a day - the World Bank's measure of extreme poverty. Internal migrants Addis Ababa's population is now thought to be close to 4 million, and growing at a rate of nearly 4 per cent per year propelled by land shortages which force rural families to send their children to the capital to earn wages to send back home. A World Bank study in 2010 found that 37 per cent of Addis Ababa's residents were internal migrants, the vast majority of whom were drawn by the city's educational or employment opportunities. Wages in the cities are higher than in rural areas, sometimes as much as double. It was the promise of education in Addis Ababa that led 11-year-old Embet to take the fateful decision to leave home.The young girl from Debat, a small town in Ethiopia's Amhara region, packed up and left for the capital in the company of her older neighbour, who said that her relatives there would welcome her into their home, pay her 200 Ethiopian birr ($8) a month to look after their young children, and send her to school."I thought I would enjoy Addis," said Embet, tearfully. "The woman told me fancy things about it. I thought everything would be okay."But it wasn't. Despite the promises, Embet was never paid by her neighbour's relatives, and she was never sent to school. She slept on a mattress in the living room, was barely fed, and suffered abuse at the hands of her employers."I had to do everything," she said, including cleaning, cooking, and looking after the family's young children.After two months living with the family, Embet fled - walking the streets of Addis Ababa until she was found and taken to the local police station.Human traffickingEmbet's story is far from unusual: she is one of thousands of girls from all over Ethiopia who are trafficked to Addis Ababa to work in domestic service, some ending up in conditions comparable to slavery.More than 400,000 Ethiopians are estimated to be trapped in slavery, according to the 2016 Global Slavery Index by human rights group Walk Free Foundation.The industry is fed by one of the world's highest rates of human trafficking. Each year, upwards of 20,000 Ethiopian children, some as young as 10, are sold by their parents, according to Humanium, a children's charity.It is a trade driven by poverty.Despite a state-led industrial push that has transformed Ethiopia, known for famine, into one of Africa's fastest-growing economies, a third of its 99 million citizens still survive on less than $1.90 a day - the World Bank's measure of extreme poverty.Internal migrantsAddis Ababa's population is now thought to be close to 4 million, and growing at a rate of nearly 4 per cent per year propelled by land shortages which force rural families to send their children to the capital to earn wages to send back home.A World Bank study in 2010 found that 37 per cent of Addis Ababa's residents were internal migrants, the vast majority of whom were drawn by the city's educational or employment opportunities. Wages in the cities are higher than in rural areas, sometimes as much as double.