It is now officially alarming that the East African Community Heads of State summit has been postponed for the third time in a row even though there are many pending issues the leaders are supposed to dispose of. Since November last year, various partner states have been requesting postponement citing national issues that have nothing to do with the EAC. This time, the summit originally scheduled for April 28 has been pushed to May 20 because Kenya says the leadership has other engagements that have not been clearly explained. Diplomatic sources say that Kenya appears to be turning inward after being disappointed by other partner states on a number of issues such as the Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) with the EU and the regional oil pipeline, which Uganda diverted to the Tanga port instead of Lamu. It is not a coincidence that even the Northern Corridor regional infrastructure projects have also slowed down, in contrast to the enthusiasm with which they were launched in 2014. Should the summit fail to meet on the new date, then there is a strong possibility that the Kenyan and Rwandan elections set for August this year, are likely to make it difficult for the leaders to meet before the traditional November calendar. While EAC citizens have embraced integration in their little ways as they trade and interact with each other across the borders, it appears that the leaders have put national issues ahead of the Community agenda. We hope that these delays have nothing to do with the kind of personality clashes that led to the collapse of the inaugural Community in 1977. When the EAC was revived in 1999, the main objective was to ensure that parochial jealousy and national interests should never again stand in the way of regional integration. The Heads of State Summit is the highest organ of the Community, which makes important decisions that affect the integration process. For instance, it is the leaders who decide on stop-gap measures when the community falls short of funds for its programmers and projects. At the moment, only Kenya has fully met its share contribution to the 2016/2017 EAC budget, while Burundi has not made a single payment. It does not augur well for regional integration because it means several regional projects are at standstill. While the leaders are procrastinating, there are several pending issues that directly affect each partner state and needs the summit s attention. They include a regional approach to the EPA, how to deal with the Burundi political crisis and the war in South Sudan. Other pending issues that need the approval of the summit include the consolidation of the Single Customs Territory to cover all imports and intra-EAC traded goods including agricultural products, as well as the need for further liberalisation of free movement of skilled labour across the partner states as per the Common Market Protocol. EAC issues should never be sacrificed at the altar of national issues if the region wants to forge ahead and realise the benefits of full integration. It is now officially alarming that the East African Community Heads of State summit has been postponed for the third time in a row even though there are many pending issues the leaders are supposed to dispose of. Since November last year, various partner states have been requesting postponement citing national issues that have nothing to do with the EAC. This time, the summit originally scheduled for April 28 has been pushed to May 20 because Kenya says the leadership has other engagements that have not been clearly explained. Diplomatic sources say that Kenya appears to be turning inward after being disappointed by other partner states on a number of issues such as the Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) with the EU and the regional oil pipeline, which Uganda diverted to the Tanga port instead of Lamu.It is not a coincidence that even the Northern Corridor regional infrastructure projects have also slowed down, in contrast to the enthusiasm with which they were launched in 2014. Should the summit fail to meet on the new date, then there is a strong possibility that the Kenyan and Rwandan elections set for August this year, are likely to make it difficult for the leaders to meet before the traditional November calendar.While EAC citizens have embraced integration in their little ways as they trade and interact with each other across the borders, it appears that the leaders have put national issues ahead of the Community agenda.We hope that these delays have nothing to do with the kind of personality clashes that led to the collapse of the inaugural Community in 1977. When the EAC was revived in 1999, the main objective was to ensure that parochial jealousy and national interests should never again stand in the way of regional integration.The Heads of State Summit is the highest organ of the Community, which makes important decisions that affect the integration process. For instance, it is the leaders who decide on stop-gap measures when the community falls short of funds for its programmers and projects.At the moment, only Kenya has fully met its share contribution to the 2016/2017 EAC budget, while Burundi has not made a single payment. It does not augur well for regional integration because it means several regional projects are at standstill.While the leaders are procrastinating, there are several pending issues that directly affect each partner state and needs the summit s attention. They include a regional approach to the EPA, how to deal with the Burundi political crisis and the war in South Sudan.Other pending issues that need the approval of the summit include the consolidation of the Single Customs Territory to cover all imports and intra-EAC traded goods including agricultural products, as well as the need for further liberalisation of free movement of skilled labour across the partner states as per the Common Market Protocol.EAC issues should never be sacrificed at the altar of national issues if the region wants to forge ahead and realise the benefits of full integration.