On a hot afternoon in April, the 900-acre bushland, with centuries-old baobab trees scattered around is the venue of a meeting between a community of Bajuni fishermen and small-scale farmers, and Save Lamu, a community-based organisation. The residents of Kwasasi in Lamu County call this land, now marked with beacons, box. The box is the proposed site for the Lamu Coal Plant, a project opposed by Save Lamu, a coalition of more than 36 local organisations dealing with the enormity of projects like the Lamu Port and the Lamu Port South Sudan, Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) Corridor project. This April meeting is focused on finding ways and means to put pressure on the government to discard the project. This is our ancestral land, says Mohammed Shee, an elder in the community. We fish and farm here. READ: Kenya now securing land for Lamu coal plant Mr Shee speaks for thousands of residents who are opposed to the project that kicked off in earnest in 2013, when Kenya s Ministry of Energy floated a tender for a coal plant at this very site. Gulf Energy and Centum Investment won the bid and formed the Amu Power Company. The company will build and operate a 1,050 Megawatt coal-fired thermal electricity-generating plant in the Manda Bay area of Lamu County it will be the largest private sector-led project of its kind in East and Central Africa to contribute towards the government s goal of 5,000MW of affordable and reliable power on the national grid. The need for this, according to Amu s website, arises from that projects like the standard gauge railway, the Lapsset project, Konza City and steel smelting industries require about 5,000MW of power. By 2030, the peak demand is expected at 18,000MW against an installed capacity of 24,000MW. Objections rejected On February 26, the Energy Regulatory Commission rejected objections to the project by Save Lamu, saying the affected people are not opposed to Amu being issued with a licence. Save Lamu does not agree. Hadija Ernst, a founding member of the CBO, said, Communities bordering the coal plant don t know anything about it. It s so far out in the middle of the bush. In March, for example, the community woke up to the sight of bulldozers clearing farms, digging up age-old cashewnut trees for a road half-a-kilometre long into the box. Save Lamu learnt of it through a local chief. When the community demanded compensation, the road was abandoned. It is the same story as what happened with the Lapsset project, which set the stage for the coal plant. There are changes being planned in Nairobi that we don t even know about, states Khadija Shekuwe Famau, Save Lamu s project co-ordinator. We don t feel part of the process. The coal plant is a national project yet nobody on the Lapsset Authority board is from Lamu. The first time the Amu Power Company engaged with Save Lamu was towards the end of 2014, says Walid Ahmed Ali, Save Lamu s secretary and co-founder of the Lamu Youth Alliance. It was to discuss an environmental and social impact assessment required by law conducted by Amu Power s consultant. Save Lamu and local community leaders told them that we did not want coal. We preferred renewable energy. Amu Power replied that coal is cheap and they were going to use the newest technology to make it less offensive. We then began to investigate and sent six delegates to South Africa to learn about coal mining sites, said Ali. On a hot afternoon in April, the 900-acre bushland, with centuries-old baobab trees scattered around is the venue of a meeting between a community of Bajuni fishermen and small-scale farmers, and Save Lamu, a community-based organisation. The residents of Kwasasi in Lamu County call this land, now marked with beacons, box. The box is the proposed site for the Lamu Coal Plant, a project opposed by Save Lamu, a coalition of more than 36 local organisations dealing with the enormity of projects like the Lamu Port and the Lamu Port South Sudan, Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) Corridor project. This April meeting is focused on finding ways and means to put pressure on the government to discard the project. This is our ancestral land, says Mohammed Shee, an elder in the community. We fish and farm here. READ: Kenya now securing land for Lamu coal plantMr Shee speaks for thousands of residents who are opposed to the project that kicked off in earnest in 2013, when Kenya s Ministry of Energy floated a tender for a coal plant at this very site. Gulf Energy and Centum Investment won the bid and formed the Amu Power Company.The company will build and operate a 1,050 Megawatt coal-fired thermal electricity-generating plant in the Manda Bay area of Lamu County it will be the largest private sector-led project of its kind in East and Central Africa to contribute towards the government s goal of 5,000MW of affordable and reliable power on the national grid.The need for this, according to Amu s website, arises from that projects like the standard gauge railway, the Lapsset project, Konza City and steel smelting industries require about 5,000MW of power. By 2030, the peak demand is expected at 18,000MW against an installed capacity of 24,000MW. Objections rejectedOn February 26, the Energy Regulatory Commission rejected objections to the project by Save Lamu, saying the affected people are not opposed to Amu being issued with a licence.Save Lamu does not agree. Hadija Ernst, a founding member of the CBO, said, Communities bordering the coal plant don t know anything about it. It s so far out in the middle of the bush. In March, for example, the community woke up to the sight of bulldozers clearing farms, digging up age-old cashewnut trees for a road half-a-kilometre long into the box. Save Lamu learnt of it through a local chief. When the community demanded compensation, the road was abandoned. It is the same story as what happened with the Lapsset project, which set the stage for the coal plant. There are changes being planned in Nairobi that we don t even know about, states Khadija Shekuwe Famau, Save Lamu s project co-ordinator. We don t feel part of the process. The coal plant is a national project yet nobody on the Lapsset Authority board is from Lamu. The first time the Amu Power Company engaged with Save Lamu was towards the end of 2014, says Walid Ahmed Ali, Save Lamu s secretary and co-founder of the Lamu Youth Alliance. It was to discuss an environmental and social impact assessment required by law conducted by Amu Power s consultant. Save Lamu and local community leaders told them that we did not want coal. We preferred renewable energy. Amu Power replied that coal is cheap and they were going to use the newest technology to make it less offensive. We then began to investigate and sent six delegates to South Africa to learn about coal mining sites, said Ali.