Kenya's opposition was Thursday evening staring at a political crisis over its nominees to the East African Legislative Assembly, as the ruling Jubilee Coalition handed a political lifeline to some of its politicians who lost in its nominations earlier in the month. While the ruling coalition forwarded the names of 15 nominees to the regional Parliament, members of the constituent parties in the Opposition grumbled about the decision to have only four names submitted, instead of at least 12, and an instruction to have specific individuals elected. The four are Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka s son Kennedy Kalonzo, ODM elections board chair Judith Pareno, Mr Ronald Ngeny and Mr Abubakar Zein. Ford Kenya, later in the evening, presented Ms Carolyn Ochieng Oduor as its nominee, complicating issues further for the Opposition. Parties are supposed to submit nominees to Parliament, which picks only nine, five from Jubilee and four from Cord for the regional legislative assembly. Nominees Among the politicians Jubilee nominated for the posts are former Interior Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo, former Kamukunji MP Simon Mbugua, and Mandera North MP Mohammed Adan Nooru. Others are chairman of the Jubilee Party Nelson Dzuya, former Clerk of the National Assembly Justin Bundi, Embu County Assembly Speaker Justus Mate and current member of the Arusha-based assembly Abubakar Ogle. Mr Iringo lost his bid to get the Jubilee ticket in Imenti North while Mr Mbugua gave up his quest for Kamukunji in favour of incumbent Yusuf Hassan. Mr Nooru had already submitted his resignation as MP on the mistaken notion that he would need to do so. But Speaker Justin Muturi clarified that an MP need not resign to take up a seat in Eala, and that the resignation rule only applies to public servants. In the Opposition coalition, a crisis brewed over the posts. A member from one of the smaller parties told the Nation there was disgruntlement with the choice of the four, whittled down from the 41 who had applied. He said it is likely that some of those who applied for the posts will contest the coalition s decision in court, which could delay the elections, scheduled for May 25. At the start of the sitting, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi told the House he had received the 15 names from Jubilee but was yet to get the list of Cord s nominees. As he was speaking, Minority Whip Thomas Mwadeghu submitted a list of four nominees at Charter Hall, where the secretariat managing the nomination was receiving the forms. Election The inclusion of Mr Kalonzo Musyoka s son raised eyebrows, but the drama had started way earlier in the morning. Wiper s National Elections Council had shortlisted six candidates for interview, but two of them pulled out of the race while one did not turn up, leaving the contest between three candidates. Kenya's opposition was Thursday evening staring at a political crisis over its nominees to the East African Legislative Assembly, as the ruling Jubilee Coalition handed a political lifeline to some of its politicians who lost in its nominations earlier in the month.While the ruling coalition forwarded the names of 15 nominees to the regional Parliament, members of the constituent parties in the Opposition grumbled about the decision to have only four names submitted, instead of at least 12, and an instruction to have specific individuals elected.The four are Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka s son Kennedy Kalonzo, ODM elections board chair Judith Pareno, Mr Ronald Ngeny and Mr Abubakar Zein.Ford Kenya, later in the evening, presented Ms Carolyn Ochieng Oduor as its nominee, complicating issues further for the Opposition.Parties are supposed to submit nominees to Parliament, which picks only nine, five from Jubilee and four from Cord for the regional legislative assembly.NomineesAmong the politicians Jubilee nominated for the posts are former Interior Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo, former Kamukunji MP Simon Mbugua, and Mandera North MP Mohammed Adan Nooru. Others are chairman of the Jubilee Party Nelson Dzuya, former Clerk of the National Assembly Justin Bundi, Embu County Assembly Speaker Justus Mate and current member of the Arusha-based assembly Abubakar Ogle.Mr Iringo lost his bid to get the Jubilee ticket in Imenti North while Mr Mbugua gave up his quest for Kamukunji in favour of incumbent Yusuf Hassan. Mr Nooru had already submitted his resignation as MP on the mistaken notion that he would need to do so.But Speaker Justin Muturi clarified that an MP need not resign to take up a seat in Eala, and that the resignation rule only applies to public servants.In the Opposition coalition, a crisis brewed over the posts. A member from one of the smaller parties told the Nation there was disgruntlement with the choice of the four, whittled down from the 41 who had applied. He said it is likely that some of those who applied for the posts will contest the coalition s decision in court, which could delay the elections, scheduled for May 25.At the start of the sitting, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi told the House he had received the 15 names from Jubilee but was yet to get the list of Cord s nominees.As he was speaking, Minority Whip Thomas Mwadeghu submitted a list of four nominees at Charter Hall, where the secretariat managing the nomination was receiving the forms.ElectionThe inclusion of Mr Kalonzo Musyoka s son raised eyebrows, but the drama had started way earlier in the morning.Wiper s National Elections Council had shortlisted six candidates for interview, but two of them pulled out of the race while one did not turn up, leaving the contest between three candidates.