Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has again proceeded to London for follow-up medical consultation with his doctors. President Buhari who left Abuja on Sunday night, had been to London twice since last year for the same medical attention. Speculation has been rife that his health had deteriorated badly, but he attended last Friday prayers to douse such insinuations. His Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, disclosed in Abuja that President Buhari had planned to leave Sunday afternoon, but decided to delay a bit, due to the arrival of 82 Chibok schoolgirls in Abuja earlier in the day. “The President wishes to assure all Nigerians that there is no cause for worry. The prayers “He is very grateful for the prayers and good wishes of the people, and hopes they would continue to pray for the peace and unity of the nation,” Mr Adesina said. According to Mr Adesina, the length of the President’s stay in London will be determined by the doctors, saying that government will continue to function normally under the leadership of the vice-president. “President Buhari has transmitted letters about the trip to the Senate and the House of Representatives, in compliance with Section 145 (1) of the 1999 Constitution,” he added. President Buhari had travelled to London in January for a similar check up and returned on March 10, after 51 days. Last year June, the president also travelled to check an ear infection. A light reception Meanwhile, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and Senate President Bukola Saraki on Sunday night paid a farewell visit to President Buhari. The president, who confirmed this development on his Twitter handle on Sunday in Abuja, said he also received the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Yakubu Dogara, in the Presidential Villa on similar mission. President Buhari posted: “I received Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogara at home this evening ahead of my trip tonight.’’ President Buhari had earlier hosted the 82 rescued Chibok schoolgirls to a light reception shortly before the arrival of prof Osinbajo, Mr Bukola and Mr Dogara. The president described the 82 Chibok schoolgirls as a pleasant second anniversary gift to Nigerians.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.