Little Red is a East African luxury-clothing retailer based in Nairobi that is not only one of the city s iconic stores for high-end menswear, but also among the oldest. Founded by Abdulla Fazal in the early 1950s, the store now is in its fourth generation of operation. The story of this remarkable business isn t just that of the resilience of its owners. Among the sleek designs and luxurious fabrics, you will also find the story of the evolution of the urban East African man, and how demographic change is shaping consumer preferences and business practice. Today, the generation of young Kenyans in their early-to-mid 30s, those just settling into the rhythms of adult life, have something unique about them. Between 1980 and 1985 around the time this group was born Kenya s population growth rate was at an astonishing 3.8 per cent, the highest, not only in Africa, but also globally. At the time, Kenya was the youngest country in the world. Those babies are all grown up now, and as they adopt the habits and style of adulthood, that huge population cohort is a lucrative business opportunity for retailers like Little Red, who have had to customise their product offerings to the young, upwardly mobile urban professional. Just a decade ago, their primary customer was older, more conservative, and less exposed to global trends in fashion menswear. Managing director Aziz Fazal describes the shift. Shoes and accessories We are a fourth-generation business, and now we are dealing with fourth-generation client, 25-35-year olds who are well educated, well travelled and highly paid, Fazal tells The EastAfrican. This group takes fashion seriously. Everything the suits, ties, shoes and accessories has to be sleek and trendy, they want the full GQ Magazine look. It means that Hugo Boss suits a brand marketed globally to appeal to the young, trendy, discerning man are now among Little Red s best sellers, when this wasn t the case even a few years ago. It also doesn t hurt that Hugo Boss is on the more affordable end of the luxury spectrum, at about $800 to $1,200 apiece, and so is relatively accessible to the younger demographic. Hugo Boss is a visible brand, worn by today s celebrities and athletes, Mr Fazal explains. It is good value at a good price range, and it is where most of our younger customers begin their commitment to luxury menswear. It is from here, Mr Fazal explains, that customers begin to evolve into a more classic look. Little Red is a East African luxury-clothing retailer based in Nairobi that is not only one of the city s iconic stores for high-end menswear, but also among the oldest. Founded by Abdulla Fazal in the early 1950s, the store now is in its fourth generation of operation. The story of this remarkable business isn t just that of the resilience of its owners. Among the sleek designs and luxurious fabrics, you will also find the story of the evolution of the urban East African man, and how demographic change is shaping consumer preferences and business practice.Today, the generation of young Kenyans in their early-to-mid 30s, those just settling into the rhythms of adult life, have something unique about them.Between 1980 and 1985 around the time this group was born Kenya s population growth rate was at an astonishing 3.8 per cent, the highest, not only in Africa, but also globally. At the time, Kenya was the youngest country in the world.Those babies are all grown up now, and as they adopt the habits and style of adulthood, that huge population cohort is a lucrative business opportunity for retailers like Little Red, who have had to customise their product offerings to the young, upwardly mobile urban professional. Just a decade ago, their primary customer was older, more conservative, and less exposed to global trends in fashion menswear.Managing director Aziz Fazal describes the shift.Shoes and accessories We are a fourth-generation business, and now we are dealing with fourth-generation client, 25-35-year olds who are well educated, well travelled and highly paid, Fazal tells The EastAfrican. This group takes fashion seriously. Everything the suits, ties, shoes and accessories has to be sleek and trendy, they want the full GQ Magazine look. It means that Hugo Boss suits a brand marketed globally to appeal to the young, trendy, discerning man are now among Little Red s best sellers, when this wasn t the case even a few years ago. It also doesn t hurt that Hugo Boss is on the more affordable end of the luxury spectrum, at about $800 to $1,200 apiece, and so is relatively accessible to the younger demographic. Hugo Boss is a visible brand, worn by today s celebrities and athletes, Mr Fazal explains. It is good value at a good price range, and it is where most of our younger customers begin their commitment to luxury menswear. It is from here, Mr Fazal explains, that customers begin to evolve into a more classic look.