Manuel Antonio Noriega, who took power in Panama in 1983 and was ousted by US forces in 1989, died late Monday in Panama City, a government official said. He was 83. Noriega was in a hospital recovering from a brain tumour operation. The announcement was made by government communications secretary Manuel Dominguez. He was released from prison in January to allow him to prepare for the operation. He was jailed in Panama for murder, corruption and embezzlement. Noriega suffered from vascular ailments and was using a wheelchair. Although he was never the actual president of Panama, General Noriega was the key figure from 1983 to 1989, and a key US ally in Central America for four decades. The former military ruler was jailed following the US invasion of Panama in 1989. After serving 20 years in a US prison he was sent to France, where he was sentenced to seven years for money laundering. Noriega was convicted in absentia of crimes carried out during his rule and extradited from France to Panama to serve his sentence in 2011. Additional reporting by BBC. Manuel Antonio Noriega, who took power in Panama in 1983 and was ousted by US forces in 1989, died late Monday in Panama City, a government official said. He was 83.Noriega was in a hospital recovering from a brain tumour operation. The announcement was made by government communications secretary Manuel Dominguez.He was released from prison in January to allow him to prepare for the operation.He was jailed in Panama for murder, corruption and embezzlement.Noriega suffered from vascular ailments and was using a wheelchair.Although he was never the actual president of Panama, General Noriega was the key figure from 1983 to 1989, and a key US ally in Central America for four decades.The former military ruler was jailed following the US invasion of Panama in 1989.After serving 20 years in a US prison he was sent to France, where he was sentenced to seven years for money laundering.Noriega was convicted in absentia of crimes carried out during his rule and extradited from France to Panama to serve his sentence in 2011.Additional reporting by BBC.