British soul singer Jocelyn Eve Stoker, better known as Joss Stone is set to perform in Kigali on June 1 as part of her Total World Tour. The multi-award winner will perform live on stage at Kigali s Marriott hotel. This is her second performance in the region as she previously performed in Kenya last year. She will then go to perform in Zimbabwe on June 2 at the 7 Arts Theatre and then in the Republic of Congo on June 4 at the Hotel de la Pr fecture de Brazzaville. Joss Stone began her singing career at the age of 12 and signed a record deal at the age of 15. She released her first album titled The Soul Sessions in 2003. The singer has won numerous awards including one Grammy out of five nominations and two Brit awards. She has recorded seven albums and has performed at major platforms like the 2011 Global Angels concert. She has also shared the stage with renowned artistes like James Brown, Stevie Wonder, Damien Marley, Dave Stewart and others. Joss Stone last released an album in 2015 and emerged the 2015 Billboard Award s top reggae artist for her album titled Water for Your Soul. Her Total World Tour started in 2014 and so far she has performed in New Zealand, Australia, Dubai, Brazil, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Mexico, Benin, Sudan, Kenya, Morocco, South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland among others. She has collaborated with Bil Aka Kora from Burkina Faso, Nneka Egbuna from Nigeria and Deltino Guerreiro from Mozambique. I felt that this tour serves as a channel for physically connecting with the world, she said. She cited technical glitches among equipment as being the major challenge she faces while on tour, though it in turn serves as another expedition for digging deeper into being more innovative to herself. British soul singer Jocelyn Eve Stoker, better known as Joss Stone is set to perform in Kigali on June 1 as part of her Total World Tour. The multi-award winner will perform live on stage at Kigali s Marriott hotel. This is her second performance in the region as she previously performed in Kenya last year. She will then go to perform in Zimbabwe on June 2 at the 7 Arts Theatre and then in the Republic of Congo on June 4 at the Hotel de la Pr fecture de Brazzaville.Joss Stone began her singing career at the age of 12 and signed a record deal at the age of 15. She released her first album titled The Soul Sessions in 2003.The singer has won numerous awards including one Grammy out of five nominations and two Brit awards.She has recorded seven albums and has performed at major platforms like the 2011 Global Angels concert. She has also shared the stage with renowned artistes like James Brown, Stevie Wonder, Damien Marley, Dave Stewart and others. Joss Stone last released an album in 2015 and emerged the 2015 Billboard Award s top reggae artist for her album titled Water for Your Soul.Her Total World Tour started in 2014 and so far she has performed in New Zealand, Australia, Dubai, Brazil, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Mexico, Benin, Sudan, Kenya, Morocco, South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland among others. She has collaborated with Bil Aka Kora from Burkina Faso, Nneka Egbuna from Nigeria and Deltino Guerreiro from Mozambique. I felt that this tour serves as a channel for physically connecting with the world, she said.She cited technical glitches among equipment as being the major challenge she faces while on tour, though it in turn serves as another expedition for digging deeper into being more innovative to herself.