A seasoned hotelier with 20 years of experience at the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, Thomas Stene is the general manager of the Park Inn by Radisson Kigali. He has worked in the Czech Republic, Norway, England, Russia and Azerbaijan. --------------------------------------------------- Who are you and how did you get into this business? I am from Norway and a passionate hotelier. I have been with Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group for 20 years. I was picked up by Rezidor before I even finished my studies. I started as a supervisor and I rose through the ranks until my current position of general manager. I have worked as a GM in Azerbaijan, Russia, England, the Czech Republic and Norway. When I was asked to open the Park Inn by Radisson in Kigali, I had no hesitation. I knew a bit about the country but the more I read, the more I knew I wanted to move here. Norway is notoriously mountainous and much colder than Rwanda. How does it feel living in a country that has a completely different climate? Norway has beautiful mountains and fjords and has indeed a different climate from Rwanda, but this is still a great country to live in. So, this did not deter me from moving here, as I always want to experience new cultures. I am curious about people, about cultures and I think Rwanda is a fantastic country. How does your typical work day unfold? When I report in the morning, I first take a walk around the property to see that everything and everyone is ok. I then go through my e-mails and do some administration work before I walk around the hotel again to meet with guests for a chat or over coffee. In this way, we get direct feedback that is valuable to us as we that seek to improve our services. I have my lunch in the canteen with the rest of the staff, then maybe have a coffee with my team in the afternoon to get feedback from them. Is there any day that you are not at work? I rest on a Saturday or a Sunday, but should the operations require my presence, I will be there. Working in a hotel is not a job, it s a lifestyle, so you have to be available 24/7. What do you do when you are not at work, how do you hang out? I love hiking, even though I have not been able to do that as much as I wanted since I came to Rwanda. I also like to play tennis. A seasoned hotelier with 20 years of experience at the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, Thomas Stene is the general manager of the Park Inn by Radisson Kigali. He has worked in the Czech Republic, Norway, England, Russia and Azerbaijan.---------------------------------------------------Who are you and how did you get into this business?I am from Norway and a passionate hotelier. I have been with Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group for 20 years. I was picked up by Rezidor before I even finished my studies. I started as a supervisor and I rose through the ranks until my current position of general manager. I have worked as a GM in Azerbaijan, Russia, England, the Czech Republic and Norway. When I was asked to open the Park Inn by Radisson in Kigali, I had no hesitation. I knew a bit about the country but the more I read, the more I knew I wanted to move here. Norway is notoriously mountainous and much colder than Rwanda. How does it feel living in a country that has a completely different climate?Norway has beautiful mountains and fjords and has indeed a different climate from Rwanda, but this is still a great country to live in. So, this did not deter me from moving here, as I always want to experience new cultures. I am curious about people, about cultures and I think Rwanda is a fantastic country.How does your typical work day unfold? When I report in the morning, I first take a walk around the property to see that everything and everyone is ok. I then go through my e-mails and do some administration work before I walk around the hotel again to meet with guests for a chat or over coffee. In this way, we get direct feedback that is valuable to us as we that seek to improve our services. I have my lunch in the canteen with the rest of the staff, then maybe have a coffee with my team in the afternoon to get feedback from them. Is there any day that you are not at work? I rest on a Saturday or a Sunday, but should the operations require my presence, I will be there. Working in a hotel is not a job, it s a lifestyle, so you have to be available 24/7.What do you do when you are not at work, how do you hang out?I love hiking, even though I have not been able to do that as much as I wanted since I came to Rwanda. I also like to play tennis.