Sudanese Foreign ministry has suspended a scheduled official diplomatic trip to Egypt after President Omar Bashir accused Cairo of supporting rebel groups to topple his government. The Khartoum media reported that Foreign minister Ibrahim Gandour was expected to land in Cairo Wednesday to ease the heightening tensions between the neighbouring countries, but the trip was halted until further notice. We told our brothers in Egypt about the postponement of the visit due to internal issues and it would take place later, a statement issued by the Khartoum Foreign ministry reads. The accusations Last week, President Bashir alleged that the Sudan Armed Forces captured Egyptian armoured vehicles from rebels during a combat between the two sides in the southern Darfur region. READ: Bashir accuses Egypt, South Sudan of backing rebels Cairo denied the accusations of providing support to Sudanese rebels. ALSO READ: Juba rubbishes Bashir's claims of backing Sudan rebels Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said it was not, and would never be in the interest of Egypt to conspire against Sudan. Would I conspire and let the elements attack our brothers in Sudan? At loggerheads We practice honourable politics at a time when honour is rare, President Sisi said. The two states have been at loggerheads since, with Sudan blaming Cairo s UN role of backing the extension of international sanctions against Khartoum, but Egypt denies the claims. In turn, Cairo has blamed Khartoum for supporting the Ethiopia construction of a multi-million dollar dam on the Nile. Egypt fears that the dam project will affect its water needs from the River Nile. Sudanese Foreign ministry has suspended a scheduled official diplomatic trip to Egypt after President Omar Bashir accused Cairo of supporting rebel groups to topple his government.The Khartoum media reported that Foreign minister Ibrahim Gandour was expected to land in Cairo Wednesday to ease the heightening tensions between the neighbouring countries, but the trip was halted until further notice. We told our brothers in Egypt about the postponement of the visit due to internal issues and it would take place later, a statement issued by the Khartoum Foreign ministry reads.The accusationsLast week, President Bashir alleged that the Sudan Armed Forces captured Egyptian armoured vehicles from rebels during a combat between the two sides in the southern Darfur region.READ: Bashir accuses Egypt, South Sudan of backing rebelsCairo denied the accusations of providing support to Sudanese rebels.ALSO READ: Juba rubbishes Bashir's claims of backing Sudan rebelsEgyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said it was not, and would never be in the interest of Egypt to conspire against Sudan. Would I conspire and let the elements attack our brothers in Sudan?At loggerheadsWe practice honourable politics at a time when honour is rare, President Sisi said.The two states have been at loggerheads since, with Sudan blaming Cairo s UN role of backing the extension of international sanctions against Khartoum, but Egypt denies the claims.In turn, Cairo has blamed Khartoum for supporting the Ethiopia construction of a multi-million dollar dam on the Nile.Egypt fears that the dam project will affect its water needs from the River Nile.