Trade is a hot topic in East Africa. The African Union is currently pressing the region to sign up to a European Union deal that would exchange low tariffs on its goods coming here in return for free access to its markets for the East African Community. Kenya and Rwanda have signed on the line, Tanzanian flatly opposes it and Uganda is blowing hot and cold, still undecided. Charles Onyango-Obbo set all this out with exemplary clarity in his column in this newspaper last week, highlighting the crux of the matter all EAC states must sign up or the deal is dead. Are we a functioning Community or not? It is therefore with textbook timing that the Afriart gallery in Kampala is presenting an exhibition of paintings about trade (until June 7). They are by Jjuuko Hoods, himself the director of two galleries the Karibu in Bukoto, Kampala and the Gecko in Kayabwe on the equator so they are by an artist well experienced in his subject. Like any good trader, Hoods has a keen eye for quantities. On each of his paintings there are 25 of them, all oil on canvas, with 21 being around 100cm by 80cm and four at 90cm by 60cm he used roughly a kilo of paint, he told me, applying it not with brushes but palette knives. He has probably noted how many litres of thinners and linseed oil he used too. Previously Hoods explored the wacky world of matatus, while last year he featured vegetables sellers who spill out onto the streets. Now, superficially at least his subject is street vending, (again), farmers markets and fishing. Uganda s exports include coffee, tea, fish and minerals such as copper and cobalt, he tells us. Not to mention, as a galleries director, paintings by artists who are well schooled in the formal qualities of their work and who are disciplined and professional in their approach. In spite of all this I suspect Hoods real subject remains the same, the happy chaos of urban life, and that his changing themes matatus, street sellers and now trade generally are vehicles that allow him to examine and interpret this. There are many difficulties facing Ugandan traders, he believes, yet his seductive pictures celebrate trade rather than plead for help. Support is needed, he told me, because of too few sales platforms for local farmers, who are harassed by council askaris, falling production due to pests, and high transport costs because of the state of the roads. The bounteous harvests and hardworking traders shown at Afriart may well encourage viewers to demand a better deal for farmers but if that is the point, it is so subtle that it will probably be overlooked. What Hoods s work does demonstrate is that technical skill remains the bedrock of much of art. He did not, I think, set out to show he could paint a carrot so crisply that you could feel it crunch in your mouth. It is simply that his ability to do that is a tool that facilitates his wider purpose. The sheer heft of his paintings may not be to everyone s taste, however. The canvases are so thick with paint that some look clogged and while his knives enable him to build an impasto that brushes could hardly match, his short choppy strokes disrupt the picture plane and make one too aware of his technique, taking the eye from the cohesion of his compositions. Trade is a hot topic in East Africa.The African Union is currently pressing the region to sign up to a European Union deal that would exchange low tariffs on its goods coming here in return for free access to its markets for the East African Community.Kenya and Rwanda have signed on the line, Tanzanian flatly opposes it and Uganda is blowing hot and cold, still undecided.Charles Onyango-Obbo set all this out with exemplary clarity in his column in this newspaper last week, highlighting the crux of the matter all EAC states must sign up or the deal is dead. Are we a functioning Community or not?It is therefore with textbook timing that the Afriart gallery in Kampala is presenting an exhibition of paintings about trade (until June 7).They are by Jjuuko Hoods, himself the director of two galleries the Karibu in Bukoto, Kampala and the Gecko in Kayabwe on the equator so they are by an artist well experienced in his subject.Like any good trader, Hoods has a keen eye for quantities. On each of his paintings there are 25 of them, all oil on canvas, with 21 being around 100cm by 80cm and four at 90cm by 60cm he used roughly a kilo of paint, he told me, applying it not with brushes but palette knives. He has probably noted how many litres of thinners and linseed oil he used too. Previously Hoods explored the wacky world of matatus, while last year he featured vegetables sellers who spill out onto the streets. Now, superficially at least his subject is street vending, (again), farmers markets and fishing.Uganda s exports include coffee, tea, fish and minerals such as copper and cobalt, he tells us. Not to mention, as a galleries director, paintings by artists who are well schooled in the formal qualities of their work and who are disciplined and professional in their approach.In spite of all this I suspect Hoods real subject remains the same, the happy chaos of urban life, and that his changing themes matatus, street sellers and now trade generally are vehicles that allow him to examine and interpret this.There are many difficulties facing Ugandan traders, he believes, yet his seductive pictures celebrate trade rather than plead for help.Support is needed, he told me, because of too few sales platforms for local farmers, who are harassed by council askaris, falling production due to pests, and high transport costs because of the state of the roads.The bounteous harvests and hardworking traders shown at Afriart may well encourage viewers to demand a better deal for farmers but if that is the point, it is so subtle that it will probably be overlooked.What Hoods s work does demonstrate is that technical skill remains the bedrock of much of art. He did not, I think, set out to show he could paint a carrot so crisply that you could feel it crunch in your mouth. It is simply that his ability to do that is a tool that facilitates his wider purpose.The sheer heft of his paintings may not be to everyone s taste, however. The canvases are so thick with paint that some look clogged and while his knives enable him to build an impasto that brushes could hardly match, his short choppy strokes disrupt the picture plane and make one too aware of his technique, taking the eye from the cohesion of his compositions.