Turkish Airlines is offering discounted airfares in a promotion dubbed the World of Flavours, in conjunction with ArtCaffe restaurants and Rickshaw Travel. This is a three-month promotion starting in May 2017, and will offer a chance to patrons of ArtCaffe to travel the world on Turkish Airlines at reduced prices on flights departing from Nairobi or Mombasa in Kenya. By spending Ksh2,000 ($2) or more at any ArtCaffe restaurant, you can book a flight on Turkish Airlines flying out of Kenya and get a 20 per cent discount on the fare. All bookings must be done through Rickshaw Travel. Added to this offer, social media buffs have a chance to win two business class tickets to London, Athens and Tel Aviv by sharing photos of their restaurant experience on ArtCaffe s Facebook page under the World of Flavours tab. Each month, the post with the highest votes will earn the free tickets, with additional prizes of hampers and meal vouchers up for grabs. Turkish Airlines flies to 298 destinations worldwide, 44 of them in Africa including Nairobi, Dar es Salaam, Entebbe and Kigali. In 2016, the airline was chosen Europe s Best Airline for the sixth year running by Skytrax, a UK-based flight research company. Flying Chef, their renowned inflight personalised catering service, includes an on-board chef and freshly prepared meals in business class during long haul trips. ArtCaffe is a franchise of upmarket coffee houses with 11 outlets in Nairobi. This joint venture ties in with the ArtCaffe philosophy of, Delight your taste buds through flavours from around the world, said Mark Muita, the restaurant s sales and marketing manager. ArtCaffe was voted the Best Coffee House and Bakery at the 2016 Chef s Delight awards in Kenya. Rickshaw Travel specialises in flight ticketing and holiday bookings. The company was established in Dar es Salaam in 1988 and now has offices in Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, UK, Denmark and Canada. In partnering with ArtCaffe, Rickshaw s managing director, Binoy Zachariah, expressed optimism that customers will be able to discover new cultures through food. Turkish Airlines is offering discounted airfares in a promotion dubbed the World of Flavours, in conjunction with ArtCaffe restaurants and Rickshaw Travel. This is a three-month promotion starting in May 2017, and will offer a chance to patrons of ArtCaffe to travel the world on Turkish Airlines at reduced prices on flights departing from Nairobi or Mombasa in Kenya. By spending Ksh2,000 ($2) or more at any ArtCaffe restaurant, you can book a flight on Turkish Airlines flying out of Kenya and get a 20 per cent discount on the fare. All bookings must be done through Rickshaw Travel.Added to this offer, social media buffs have a chance to win two business class tickets to London, Athens and Tel Aviv by sharing photos of their restaurant experience on ArtCaffe s Facebook page under the World of Flavours tab. Each month, the post with the highest votes will earn the free tickets, with additional prizes of hampers and meal vouchers up for grabs.Turkish Airlines flies to 298 destinations worldwide, 44 of them in Africa including Nairobi, Dar es Salaam, Entebbe and Kigali. In 2016, the airline was chosen Europe s Best Airline for the sixth year running by Skytrax, a UK-based flight research company. Flying Chef, their renowned inflight personalised catering service, includes an on-board chef and freshly prepared meals in business class during long haul trips. ArtCaffe is a franchise of upmarket coffee houses with 11 outlets in Nairobi. This joint venture ties in with the ArtCaffe philosophy of, Delight your taste buds through flavours from around the world, said Mark Muita, the restaurant s sales and marketing manager. ArtCaffe was voted the Best Coffee House and Bakery at the 2016 Chef s Delight awards in Kenya. Rickshaw Travel specialises in flight ticketing and holiday bookings. The company was established in Dar es Salaam in 1988 and now has offices in Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, UK, Denmark and Canada. In partnering with ArtCaffe, Rickshaw s managing director, Binoy Zachariah, expressed optimism that customers will be able to discover new cultures through food.