Kenya's electoral commission has so far cleared eight presidential candidates to face off in the August General Election. They are National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga, Cyrus Jirongo (United Democratic Party), Ekuru Aukot (Thirdway Alliance), Michael Wainaina (Independent), Uhuru Kenyatta (Jubilee Party) and Japhet Kaluyu (Independent). Others are Mohamed Abduba Dida (Alliance for Real Change) and Joe Nyagah (Independent). By close of business Monday, five aspirants had flopped the test the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) set for politicians gunning for the top seat in the land. They are Peter Solomon Gichira (Independent), Erastus Nyamera (Independent), Justice and Equality Party flagbearer Justus Juma, Truphena Moraa Ochwangi (Independent) and Nazlin Umar. Suicide mission Mr Gichira's loss saw him attempt to jump off the 6th floor of Anniversary Towers, the IEBC headquarters, in protest on Saturday afternoon. He was on Monday charged before a Nairobi court with attempted suicide, malicious damage and creating disturbance at IEBC's offices. He denied the three charges and was released him on $2,000 cash bail. Mr Nyamera flopped the IEBC test after presenting himself before the Wafula Chebukati-led panel without a running mate. He also failed to produce his academic papers, $2,000 cheque and requisite signatures. Mr Juma, on the other hand, failed to secure the greenlight to run for the top office after it emerged that his proposer was not a member of his party. The application of Truphena Moraa Ochwangi to vie for the top seat as an independent candidate was rejected after she failed to present required documents. Missing name Ms Umar s bid for the presidency hit a dead end after it was discovered that her name was missing in the voters' register. Kenya's electoral commission has so far cleared eight presidential candidates to face off in the August General Election.They are National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga, Cyrus Jirongo (United Democratic Party), Ekuru Aukot (Thirdway Alliance), Michael Wainaina (Independent), Uhuru Kenyatta (Jubilee Party) and Japhet Kaluyu (Independent).Others are Mohamed Abduba Dida (Alliance for Real Change) and Joe Nyagah (Independent).By close of business Monday, five aspirants had flopped the test the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) set for politicians gunning for the top seat in the land.They are Peter Solomon Gichira (Independent), Erastus Nyamera (Independent), Justice and Equality Party flagbearer Justus Juma, Truphena Moraa Ochwangi (Independent) and Nazlin Umar.Suicide missionMr Gichira's loss saw him attempt to jump off the 6th floor of Anniversary Towers, the IEBC headquarters, in protest on Saturday afternoon.He was on Monday charged before a Nairobi court with attempted suicide, malicious damage and creating disturbance at IEBC's offices. He denied the three charges and was released him on $2,000 cash bail.Mr Nyamera flopped the IEBC test after presenting himself before the Wafula Chebukati-led panel without a running mate.He also failed to produce his academic papers, $2,000 cheque and requisite signatures.Mr Juma, on the other hand, failed to secure the greenlight to run for the top office after it emerged that his proposer was not a member of his party.The application of Truphena Moraa Ochwangi to vie for the top seat as an independent candidate was rejected after she failed to present required documents.Missing nameMs Umar s bid for the presidency hit a dead end after it was discovered that her name was missing in the voters' register.