Airlines in America have lately been in the news for all the wrong reasons. Delta Airlines reportedly booted a family with a toddler from their flight and are even said to have gone as far as threatening the family with jail. The family had purchased three tickets for three seats, one being for their teenage son who ended up on a different flight. Since they also had a toddler, they attempted to use the extra seat for their toddler instead of holding him on their laps as required. The first mistake occurred at the boarding gate when the agent is reported to have allowed the family to use the extra seat for their toddler. But later on before take-off, the airline demanded the seat for a wait listed passenger and asked the family to hold the toddler. The family refused and they were off loaded from the flight. The airline has since apologised for the incident but the damage had been done. This came after a video shot in a United Airlines plane went viral showing a passenger being dragged out of his seat and through the aisle by airline security for refusing to give up his seat. In both instances, the problem was the decisions made at the boarding gates by airline officials. Locally, a passenger had to endure a night bus travel after being stopped from boarding her flight after check-in. The airline explained that by the time boarding for the Nairobi-Kisumu flight was completed, the airline had not confirmed whether the credit card used to purchase her ticket which was done by her spouse was genuine or not. According to the airline, the name on the ticket and the paying party did not match and since the owner of the card could not be reached, they had no choice but to deny her boarding. The mistake was that they checked her in and even issued her with a boarding pass before confirming the card details. While the airline has refused to refund the fare, she can initiate a refund request with her credit card company within 180 days. From the above cases, you get the feeling that airlines are quick to hide behind policy and its enforcement rather than take time and educate their passengers in advance on how some of their company policies can affect passengers travel. Airlines have long been plagued by cases of name related fraud on air tickets. As a traveller, there are certain policies you must be aware of as far as name, transferability and ticket changes go. Airlines in America have lately been in the news for all the wrong reasons.Delta Airlines reportedly booted a family with a toddler from their flight and are even said to have gone as far as threatening the family with jail. The family had purchased three tickets for three seats, one being for their teenage son who ended up on a different flight. Since they also had a toddler, they attempted to use the extra seat for their toddler instead of holding him on their laps as required.The first mistake occurred at the boarding gate when the agent is reported to have allowed the family to use the extra seat for their toddler. But later on before take-off, the airline demanded the seat for a wait listed passenger and asked the family to hold the toddler. The family refused and they were off loaded from the flight. The airline has since apologised for the incident but the damage had been done. This came after a video shot in a United Airlines plane went viral showing a passenger being dragged out of his seat and through the aisle by airline security for refusing to give up his seat. In both instances, the problem was the decisions made at the boarding gates by airline officials. Locally, a passenger had to endure a night bus travel after being stopped from boarding her flight after check-in.The airline explained that by the time boarding for the Nairobi-Kisumu flight was completed, the airline had not confirmed whether the credit card used to purchase her ticket which was done by her spouse was genuine or not.According to the airline, the name on the ticket and the paying party did not match and since the owner of the card could not be reached, they had no choice but to deny her boarding.The mistake was that they checked her in and even issued her with a boarding pass before confirming the card details. While the airline has refused to refund the fare, she can initiate a refund request with her credit card company within 180 days.From the above cases, you get the feeling that airlines are quick to hide behind policy and its enforcement rather than take time and educate their passengers in advance on how some of their company policies can affect passengers travel.Airlines have long been plagued by cases of name related fraud on air tickets.As a traveller, there are certain policies you must be aware of as far as name, transferability and ticket changes go.