The high number of independent candidates in Kenya s August elections has caused a stir in the country, as it emerged that once elected they could work in partnership with registered political parties. At the close of the May 10 deadline for parties to submit their aspirants lists and symbols to the electoral commission, there were 4,950 candidates who had applied to the Registrar of Political Parties to contest as independents. This was an increase by over 1,000 per cent from those who applied in 2013. The unprecedented high number, observers say, could affect the growth of multiparty democracy if a majority of independent candidates win in the August polls. According to Dr Carey Francis Onyango, executive director of the Centre for Multi-Party Democracy which supports the growth of political pluralism through donor funding and goodwill the trend wold weaken the party system. As much as the independents have rights provided for in the Constitution, there is a danger to the party system if there are many of them. In fact, the presidential run-off provision only envisages a two-party system to eliminate fringe candidates, he said. However, Gatobu Kinoti, a serving independent Member of Parliament, who is also running for the Meru Governor seat as an independent, believes that independent candidates are good for democracy because an MP s work should not be influenced solely by political party interests. According to Mr Kinoti, independent MPs are allowed to form partnerships with political parties in parliament to support or oppose Bills and motions. I worked in partnership with Jubilee in parliament. However, registering as a member of a political party after election as an independent party is not allowed. Jubilee even surrendered a slot for me on the Catering and Health Committee, said Mr Kinoti. 'Independents wave' Though provided for in the Constitution, for those who don t share ideologies with exiting political parties, the high number of independent aspirants this year has placed focus on lack of inclusivity in political parties or even opportunists taking advantage of loopholes in the law. Most of those who applied to vie as independents are citing the recent shambolic party primaries that did not give them a fighting chance, while others have refused to accept defeat. READ: New faces, independent candidates set to win in Kenya polls Questions are emerging whether the emergence of many independents is a sign of growth of multi-party democracy or a degeneration at a time when Kenyans have been calling for two or three strong parties based on ideology. OPINION: Wanyeki: The independents are coming... Are we ready? Miguna Miguna, a candidate for the Nairobi gubernatorial race who was one of the first politicians to announce his independent candidature in March 2016 says Kenyans must now realise that political parties are not interested in the people but in serving their owners following the recent shambolic party primaries. The high number of independent candidates in Kenya s August elections has caused a stir in the country, as it emerged that once elected they could work in partnership with registered political parties.At the close of the May 10 deadline for parties to submit their aspirants lists and symbols to the electoral commission, there were 4,950 candidates who had applied to the Registrar of Political Parties to contest as independents. This was an increase by over 1,000 per cent from those who applied in 2013. The unprecedented high number, observers say, could affect the growth of multiparty democracy if a majority of independent candidates win in the August polls.According to Dr Carey Francis Onyango, executive director of the Centre for Multi-Party Democracy which supports the growth of political pluralism through donor funding and goodwill the trend wold weaken the party system. As much as the independents have rights provided for in the Constitution, there is a danger to the party system if there are many of them. In fact, the presidential run-off provision only envisages a two-party system to eliminate fringe candidates, he said.However, Gatobu Kinoti, a serving independent Member of Parliament, who is also running for the Meru Governor seat as an independent, believes that independent candidates are good for democracy because an MP s work should not be influenced solely by political party interests.According to Mr Kinoti, independent MPs are allowed to form partnerships with political parties in parliament to support or oppose Bills and motions. I worked in partnership with Jubilee in parliament. However, registering as a member of a political party after election as an independent party is not allowed. Jubilee even surrendered a slot for me on the Catering and Health Committee, said Mr Kinoti.'Independents wave'Though provided for in the Constitution, for those who don t share ideologies with exiting political parties, the high number of independent aspirants this year has placed focus on lack of inclusivity in political parties or even opportunists taking advantage of loopholes in the law. Most of those who applied to vie as independents are citing the recent shambolic party primaries that did not give them a fighting chance, while others have refused to accept defeat. READ: New faces, independent candidates set to win in Kenya pollsQuestions are emerging whether the emergence of many independents is a sign of growth of multi-party democracy or a degeneration at a time when Kenyans have been calling for two or three strong parties based on ideology. OPINION: Wanyeki: The independents are coming... Are we ready?Miguna Miguna, a candidate for the Nairobi gubernatorial race who was one of the first politicians to announce his independent candidature in March 2016 says Kenyans must now realise that political parties are not interested in the people but in serving their owners following the recent shambolic party primaries.