Innocent Nkurunziza is transforming fashion by fusing it with visual art to create wearable art. His latest show dubbed Illusions was unveiled on May 4 at Inema Art Centre. Nkurunziza takes his works off the walls and frames and transforms them into outfits that can be worn. He is also a co-founder of Inema Art Centre, a Kigali Art hub which has been operational since 2013. Nkurunziza continues to take the lead in innovating art. His designs incorporate abstract paintings and other art forms. He has showcased his work in several solo and group exhibitions locally and internationally in countries like the US, Denmark, Germany, Scotland, Canada, and Holland. READ: Nkurunziza s new art pieces dominated by spirals, dots and lines Being an artist, I enjoy seeing creations come to life. With this exhibition, I wanted the audience to see beyond their imagination, Nkurunziza said. The designer found inspiration in Rwanda s ancient traditions such as using backcloth as the main material. His abstract outfits were the result of colouring them before turning them into outfits. He called the process giving life to the material. He also painted abstract forms on the backcloth before turning it into wearable outfits. The outfits were striking and unique. The show had 10 models who showcased the full gowns, crop tops and skirts. The designs were matched with jewellery made from recycled wire and round beads, which were handmade by Nziza Women Inema Art Centre s subsidiary craft outlet. The women models had bags designed from recycled iron, backcloth. Some of the male models carried triangular and rectangular-shaped bags on their backs. The outfits were also matched with leather shoes by Native Shoes a company based in Vancouver, Canada, which sponsored the fashion show. Nkurunziza hopes to take Illusions beyond Rwanda. Innocent Nkurunziza is transforming fashion by fusing it with visual art to create wearable art. His latest show dubbed Illusions was unveiled on May 4 at Inema Art Centre. Nkurunziza takes his works off the walls and frames and transforms them into outfits that can be worn.He is also a co-founder of Inema Art Centre, a Kigali Art hub which has been operational since 2013. Nkurunziza continues to take the lead in innovating art. His designs incorporate abstract paintings and other art forms. He has showcased his work in several solo and group exhibitions locally and internationally in countries like the US, Denmark, Germany, Scotland, Canada, and Holland. READ: Nkurunziza s new art pieces dominated by spirals, dots and lines Being an artist, I enjoy seeing creations come to life. With this exhibition, I wanted the audience to see beyond their imagination, Nkurunziza said. The designer found inspiration in Rwanda s ancient traditions such as using backcloth as the main material. His abstract outfits were the result of colouring them before turning them into outfits. He called the process giving life to the material. He also painted abstract forms on the backcloth before turning it into wearable outfits. The outfits were striking and unique. The show had 10 models who showcased the full gowns, crop tops and skirts. The designs were matched with jewellery made from recycled wire and round beads, which were handmade by Nziza Women Inema Art Centre s subsidiary craft outlet. The women models had bags designed from recycled iron, backcloth. Some of the male models carried triangular and rectangular-shaped bags on their backs. The outfits were also matched with leather shoes by Native Shoes a company based in Vancouver, Canada, which sponsored the fashion show.Nkurunziza hopes to take Illusions beyond Rwanda.