A study on gender equality in East Africa has found that despite being ranked among countries with the highest number of women in political leadership, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Tanzania are no different from Kenya, as real power to make decisions and deliver equity still belongs to men. With female leaders failing to influence political decisions, the needs of women who form the majority of the population in East African remain subordinate to men. The study is titled East African Community Gender Barometer, which has baseline statistics, where partner states check off progress on implementation of the yet-to-be assented to gender equity law that was passed by the regional assembly in March 2017. It emerged that the large number of women in politics hadn t made much of a difference in achieving equity. The gender equality, equity and development law is meant to protect women and children against sexual and gender-based violence, force EAC partners states to provide free primary and secondary education for all, reduce maternal and child mortality and protect the rights of civilians during war. The law is also meant to get EAC partner states to achieve gender parity in politics, so that both women and men enjoy the same influence in budgeting and deciding which public services are the most important for the population. This has not happened. Dr Stella Nyanzi In Uganda, for example, issues that affect women are generally underfunded. Jailed Makerere University researcher Dr Stella Nyanzi has for example pointed government s failure to provide money for menstrual pads for poor girls to keep them in school the month around. Dr Nyanzi pointed an accusing finger at the man who made this pledge in the heat of his campaign for re-election and who also holds the ultimate authority to determine whether it would be included on the budget, President Yoweri Museveni. According to Nyanzi, President Museveni reneged on that promise. But rather that encourage debate on the fundamental issues she raised, Dr Nyanzi s use of expletives when arguing her case instead landed her in jail. And now, the Government wants her to undergo a sanity test. She was released on bail on May 10. READ: Frail-looking Ugandan varsity don Stella Nyanzi released on bail More money needed Other areas considered a priority for women that have been underfunded include the failure to facilitate police officers and the judicial system in the prosecution of those who commit gender and sexual violence, funding for family planning and the failure to reduce the number of women dying during childbirth. But according to Marren Akatsa-Bukachi, the executive director Eastern African Sub-Regional Support Initiative for the Advancement of Women the Gender Barometer would change this, as women leaders will finally get a tool they can use to engage with the men who currently wield the real power. She says that with the barometer, women activists and leaders will have access to statistics that they can then use to push governments for increased budgets. According to Dr Josephine Ahikire, the Dean at the School of Women and Gender Studies who designed the barometer, the challenge of the region and its leaders is that female leaders are not participating enough in the decision making process to better serve the interests of women. A study on gender equality in East Africa has found that despite being ranked among countries with the highest number of women in political leadership, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Tanzania are no different from Kenya, as real power to make decisions and deliver equity still belongs to men. With female leaders failing to influence political decisions, the needs of women who form the majority of the population in East African remain subordinate to men. The study is titled East African Community Gender Barometer, which has baseline statistics, where partner states check off progress on implementation of the yet-to-be assented to gender equity law that was passed by the regional assembly in March 2017. It emerged that the large number of women in politics hadn t made much of a difference in achieving equity.The gender equality, equity and development law is meant to protect women and children against sexual and gender-based violence, force EAC partners states to provide free primary and secondary education for all, reduce maternal and child mortality and protect the rights of civilians during war. The law is also meant to get EAC partner states to achieve gender parity in politics, so that both women and men enjoy the same influence in budgeting and deciding which public services are the most important for the population. This has not happened. Dr Stella NyanziIn Uganda, for example, issues that affect women are generally underfunded. Jailed Makerere University researcher Dr Stella Nyanzi has for example pointed government s failure to provide money for menstrual pads for poor girls to keep them in school the month around. Dr Nyanzi pointed an accusing finger at the man who made this pledge in the heat of his campaign for re-election and who also holds the ultimate authority to determine whether it would be included on the budget, President Yoweri Museveni. According to Nyanzi, President Museveni reneged on that promise. But rather that encourage debate on the fundamental issues she raised, Dr Nyanzi s use of expletives when arguing her case instead landed her in jail. And now, the Government wants her to undergo a sanity test. She was released on bail on May 10. READ: Frail-looking Ugandan varsity don Stella Nyanzi released on bail More money neededOther areas considered a priority for women that have been underfunded include the failure to facilitate police officers and the judicial system in the prosecution of those who commit gender and sexual violence, funding for family planning and the failure to reduce the number of women dying during childbirth. But according to Marren Akatsa-Bukachi, the executive director Eastern African Sub-Regional Support Initiative for the Advancement of Women the Gender Barometer would change this, as women leaders will finally get a tool they can use to engage with the men who currently wield the real power. She says that with the barometer, women activists and leaders will have access to statistics that they can then use to push governments for increased budgets. According to Dr Josephine Ahikire, the Dean at the School of Women and Gender Studies who designed the barometer, the challenge of the region and its leaders is that female leaders are not participating enough in the decision making process to better serve the interests of women.