South Sudanese President Salva Kiir succumbed to international pressure to sack Chief of General Staff Gen Paul Malong, who represented an ethnic clique that has been holding him hostage. The sacking on May 9 coincided with the pending deployment of the United Nations-funded Regional Protection Force, which had an open mandate to deal with those who have been committing atrocities against civilians. READ: President Kiir sacks controversial army chief ALSO READ: Juba climbs down, takes in regional force United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, has been on President Kiir s case, accusing him of lacking the will to end the fighting and being reluctant to accept the deployment of the 4,000 Regional Protection Force. Commonly known as King Paul, Gen Malong was widely perceived as the real power behind President Kiir and the face of the Jieng Council of Elders (JCE) the ethnic Dinka cultural group that controlled Cabinet appointments and key government decisions. But Gen Malong in a recent interview with The EastAfrican denied that he either held the president hostage or had presidential ambitions. President Kiir is not at the mercy of any individual. He is a legitimate president, elected by over 90 per cent of the people in 2010. I am concentrating on my defence portfolio, working hard within my capabilities to prevent the country from collapsing, he said. READ: Gen Malong: I do not hold President Kiir to ransom Diplomatic sources revealed that President Kiir had found himself between a rock and a hard place in deciding whether to retain Gen Malong or face the wrath of the international community led by key Western powers, who have been quietly working on a strategy to haul those responsible for crimes against humanity to the International Criminal Court. 'A scapegoat of inefficiencies' On Thursday, President Kiir told a group of JCE that he sacked Gen Malong because he was tired of receiving constant negative reports about the former head of the army. He replaced him with Deputy Chief of General Staff for Administration and Finance, Gen James Ajongo Mawut, who also hails from his region in Aweil in Bahr-el-Ghazal. Yet, he maintained that he wanted Gen Malong, his long-time ally, out of the way so that he doesn t become a scapegoat of inefficiencies in the government and the army, a statement insiders say is an admission that his hands were tied. Steve Paterno, a research consultant based in South Africa and an expert on South Sudan, told The EastAfrican that the replacement of Gen Malong could have a major impact on the behaviour of the army. At the moment, it creates some perception that things have changed or are likely to change, but the reality will soon set in, and things will get back to normal, he said. South Sudanese President Salva Kiir succumbed to international pressure to sack Chief of General Staff Gen Paul Malong, who represented an ethnic clique that has been holding him hostage. The sacking on May 9 coincided with the pending deployment of the United Nations-funded Regional Protection Force, which had an open mandate to deal with those who have been committing atrocities against civilians. READ: President Kiir sacks controversial army chiefALSO READ: Juba climbs down, takes in regional forceUnited Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, has been on President Kiir s case, accusing him of lacking the will to end the fighting and being reluctant to accept the deployment of the 4,000 Regional Protection Force. Commonly known as King Paul, Gen Malong was widely perceived as the real power behind President Kiir and the face of the Jieng Council of Elders (JCE) the ethnic Dinka cultural group that controlled Cabinet appointments and key government decisions. But Gen Malong in a recent interview with The EastAfrican denied that he either held the president hostage or had presidential ambitions. President Kiir is not at the mercy of any individual. He is a legitimate president, elected by over 90 per cent of the people in 2010. I am concentrating on my defence portfolio, working hard within my capabilities to prevent the country from collapsing, he said.READ: Gen Malong: I do not hold President Kiir to ransomDiplomatic sources revealed that President Kiir had found himself between a rock and a hard place in deciding whether to retain Gen Malong or face the wrath of the international community led by key Western powers, who have been quietly working on a strategy to haul those responsible for crimes against humanity to the International Criminal Court. 'A scapegoat of inefficiencies'On Thursday, President Kiir told a group of JCE that he sacked Gen Malong because he was tired of receiving constant negative reports about the former head of the army. He replaced him with Deputy Chief of General Staff for Administration and Finance, Gen James Ajongo Mawut, who also hails from his region in Aweil in Bahr-el-Ghazal.Yet, he maintained that he wanted Gen Malong, his long-time ally, out of the way so that he doesn t become a scapegoat of inefficiencies in the government and the army, a statement insiders say is an admission that his hands were tied. Steve Paterno, a research consultant based in South Africa and an expert on South Sudan, told The EastAfrican that the replacement of Gen Malong could have a major impact on the behaviour of the army. At the moment, it creates some perception that things have changed or are likely to change, but the reality will soon set in, and things will get back to normal, he said. 