Dr Lilian Mary Nabulime says her creative parents influenced her choice of career. “My parents were creative in their daily lives as homemakers. They built every house we lived in, did the interior, exterior and landscaping. My mother had studied Home Science. “My siblings and I learnt our first practical artistic skills at home and were taken to schools that offered art as an examinable subject. My father always bought extra art materials for us to practice at home,” she said. As a student at Christ the King Senior Secondary School in Kalisizo district during Uganda’s unstable years in the late 1970s and early 80s, her ambition was to be a secondary school teacher or a nurse. Then everything changed when the Tanzanian liberation forces entered Uganda to depose Idi Amin. With the ensuing civil unrest, her family sought refuge at the Makerere College School in Kampala. Across the fence was the Makerere University School of Fine Art, and it was here that Nabulime first saw Fine Art students with their drawing boards. She decided then that she wanted to be an artist. Although best known for her sculptures, she also paints and is currently working on a combination of wood and sheet metal to make sculptures and carving stuff from tree stumps. Nabulime says that exploring and appropriating materials as sources of artistic inspiration into sculptural forms offers a wealth of ideas. Nabulime is currently a senior lecturer at the School of Industrial and Fine Arts of Makerere University. She holds a BA Fine Arts (1987), a Post Graduate Diploma in Education (1989), and Master of Arts Fine Arts (1993), all from Makerere University; and a Fine Art PhD (Newcastle University, UK, 2007). Her PhD research was in developing sculptures for HIV/Aids awareness titled, The role of sculptural forms as a communication tool in relation to the lives and experiences of women with HIV/Aids in Uganda. “It exposed me to various materials that are symbolic, translating disease into sculptures that can communicate to both literates and non-literates and also overcome language barriers,” she said. She has exhibited her work at solo and group exhibitions worl