Once upon a time, not long after the last dinosaur turned up its toes, painters like Sane Wadu, Wanyu Brush and Jak Katarikawe were held in awe. They were vigorously promoted as Kenya’s Big Three when the Watatu Gallery, in its dying days, tried to drum up enthusiasm for its outsider artists. They had achieved prominence in those carefree days before the Internet gave easy access to international styles — and standards — and so Watatu owner Ruth Schaffner was able to keep the lid on and, in return for welcome advances and materials, insist that they continue to produce what their mostly foreign customers liked — simple village scenes and narrative paintings in bright colours, shot with dreams and a little mystery. Helping the till to tinkle, perfect back-stories added to the idea of African innocence that Schaffner was keen to promote. In the case of Sane Wadu, the story was that he gave up a good teaching job to become an artist, whereupon his neighbours called him insane. He did little to convince them otherwise by wearing suits of many colours cut from old canvasses. But when he sold some of his work, he got his own back by adopting the nickname Sane. With his enthusiastic brushwork, high key palette and a crusty impasto that turned each canvas into a tapestry, Wadu went on to exhibit internationally, from New York to Germany, and to see his work published in many specialist books. What made him so popular can be seen in a current exhibition at the Sankara Hotel in Nairobi’s Westlands area. Mixing narrative scenes Whatever his shortage of formal skills, Wadu is unfailingly honest in setting down his whimsical view of society, mixing narrative scenes with Biblical references and latterly with more forceful social commentary. Born in 1954, he is showing alongside Fitsum Behre Woldelibanos (born 1979) in an exhibition entitled First Generation, Second Generation which contrasts the work of these two well known artists from the continuum of East African art. I had expected something anodyne from this hotel exhibition, chosen to pander to all patrons and offend none, but this small show of some 19 paintings (on until January) turns out to be a delight, with the artists stepping outside the confines of our expectations to offer new directions in their work. Where Wadu wisely sticks to compositions of either strong central figures or crowded groups in which troublesome subtleties of balance and harmony can be made to disappear, Woldelibanos with his art school training flashes paint across his canvasses in confident strokes to produce a myriad dashing portraits with occasional land and seascapes thrown in. Socio-political concerns For Wadu, socio-political concerns have always been on the agenda — witness his paintings following the US Embassy bombings of 1998, and here the horrors of the ivory trade with Poacher’s Shadow, a small and poignant painting of a terrified elephant, and Global Warming in which a large stork is threatened by pollution. Then as well as his typical narratives like the tender My Valentine and Sweet Heart (two women tugging at the arms of one man) we have Wadu in a new, more forceful mood using brighter, almost harsh, acrylic colours in Escape, to reflect the plight of migrants.   This adjustment of palette to subject struck me as an interesting development for Wadu. And there has been a change of course too by Woldelibanos, whose latest works mirror his growing interest in African photography of the late 1950s and early 60s. This was a time when the consciousness of African identity was growing and ordinary folk were eager to be photographed either in the burgeoning number of portrait studios or in their own homes. Thus we have the sensitive A Royal Portrait, which shows an unnamed woman, head held high and staring confidently past the viewer; not royal by birth but royal in dignity, enthroned as a post-colonial woman governed at last by her own people. There too is Photo Inside a Humble Interior, which shows a woman seated in her living room, a white terrier at her feet, looking out at the viewer with quiet pride. To reference the effect of a photograph, Woldelibanos has painted her as though through a polarising filter, high in contrast; a neat trick that works well. Alongside these paintings are three other new pieces that speak overtly of a social conscience not immediately apparent in his more typical work — paintings of West African gold miners each bearing a label rather like a prisoner’s mugshot. One reads, “They give us money and food,” as though to explain if not excuse their acceptance of exploitation. Woldelibanos told me he made this series after seeing a documentary about the way miners suffered. “It is an African story,” he said, “and relates to the whole continent.” So, two established artists, each of their own generation, each with their own style — one an outsider, one highly trained — and each moving forward into new territories. That is what makes this exhibition so fascinating and so well worth a visit.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.