Who knows where we’ll be this time next week? We have an incumbent ruling party that’s flipped the script. In its head, there’s no crisis. The repeat presidential poll is going ahead — as ordered by the Supreme Court. The incumbent has declared a public holiday to that effect. Despite the withdrawal of the main contender, a semblance of electoral competition will be maintained by the participation of marginal contenders from the first round. As for electoral management in line with the Constitution and the law… what does that have to do with the incumbent, it asks? Its line is that the electoral management body is constitutionally, legally and operationally independent. Despite the resignation and self-imposed exile of a commissioner. And the reaction to that resignation by the IEBC’s chair. Both revealing deep contestation internally about the readjustments required to ensure compliance with the Constitution and the law. And, more importantly, both revealing incumbent capture of the IEBC as an institution. As the commissioner who resigned, Roseline Akombe said (paraphrased): We can have an election next week, for sure. But we cannot have a credible election.Again, the incumbent is unperturbed. Yet, prominent Jubilee-leaning politicians have now spoken up, urging political dialogue. Religious institutions have been shuttling back and forth, urging political dialogue. Key civil society, labour and private sector institutions have urged dialogue. In short, Kenyans’ position has changed. From wanting to avoid the constitutional crisis posed by the timeline imposed by the Supreme Court. To recognition that the terrain has shifted beneath our feet. To go to the polls without the participation of the key opposition contender is madness. To go to the polls on the back of the public appeals from the IEBC Commissioner and chair is madness. Something is seriously wrong. We have to fix it. The only way to fix it is by talking. Then finding the right constitutional and legal grounding to anchor the outcomes of those talks.What are the alternatives? We could, of course, have a poll in which about half of the country participates. That would diminish the legitimacy of the outcome. It would also mean the incumbent would be faced with managing the anger of half the population for the next five years. The vote is our primary means of expressing our political preferences. The incumbent may have flipped the script, claiming the Supreme Court decision prioritised process over outcome, over the “sovereign will of the people.” But we know (in our heart of hearts, regardless of our political preferences) that that isn’t true. What the Supreme Court said is that the process was so flawed, there’s no way to tell what the sovereign will of the people was. We are not stupid. The captured, compromised IEBC Commissioners and staff do us a dangerous disservice by assuming that we are. L. Muthoni Wanyeki is the Africa director with the Open Society Foundations. This column is written in her personal capacity.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.