On Tuesday, Chief Justice David Maraga certified the application as urgent and directed it be heard on Wednesday at 10am (0700GMT) despite it being a public holiday. The trio argue that the IEBC commissioners are serving partisan interests and that the chairman Mr Wafula Chebukati has publicly admitted that he cannot guarantee a credible election. Three Kenyan voters have moved to the Supreme Court seeking to stop the Thursday repeat presidential poll. Mr Khalef Khalifa, Mr Samuel Mohochi and Mr Gacheke Gachuhi claim the electoral commission IEBC is divided and cannot guarantee a fair and credible election. On Tuesday, Chief Justice David Maraga certified the application as urgent and directed it be heard on Wednesday at 10am (0700GMT) despite it being a public holiday. The trio argue that the IEBC commissioners are serving partisan interests and that the chairman Mr Wafula Chebukati has publicly admitted that he cannot guarantee a credible election. READ: IEBC chairman says cannot guarantee credible election AKOMBE: Kenya poll agency under siege The petitioners, represented by lawyer Harun Ndubi, also want the court to interpret the meaning of Raila Odinga’s withdrawal from the election. They argue that the gazette notice announcing the October 26 poll date stands vacated after Mr Odinga withdrew. Further, the trio says there is a risk that the poll might not be held in a significant number of counties— thereby plunging Kenyans and their lives into jeopardy. The opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa) led by Mr Odinga has called on its supporters to boycott the election. The Supreme Court annulled the August 8 presidential election and ordered for a repeat poll within 60 days which end on October 31. The court has ordered the three to serve parties to the petition who include the IEBC and President Uhuru Kenyatta by 6pm (1500GMT) Tuesday. The respondents are expected to file by Wednesday 8am (0500 GMT).   Diplomats say election must go on, but Nasa insists they will not participate. Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.