Kenya was once again left waiting Tuesday, as embattled opposition leader Raila Odinga prepared to lay out his "strategy" following a boycott of last week's protest-hit elections that handed President Uhuru Kenyatta a landslide win. Thursday's contest saw Mr Kenyatta winning a decisive victory with 98 per cent of the vote, hailing the result as a vindication of his victory in an initial August poll which was later overturned by the country's Supreme Court. But it proved to be a bittersweet victory. Protests Turnout was just 38.8 per cent, which is likely to raise questions over the credibility of a vote that has deeply polarised the country, sparking months of bitter infighting, legal wrangling and violent protest. "This was nothing more than a revalidation of (the voters') general will," Mr Kenyatta said in his victory speech, in which he admitted the result was likely to face further legal challenges. Thursday's vote was fraught with problems, with polling prevented by violent demonstrations in four western counties where Mr Odinga supporters had widely observed a boycott, prompting two days of running battles with security forces that left nine people dead. So far, Mr Odinga has remained silent but has promised to address his followers on Tuesday. Ahead of Monday's announcement, security was stepped up in flashpoint areas in the west and in Nairobi's slums where some opposition supporters could be seen piling rocks and tyres and setting light to a few barricades. 'This is illegal' "People are not happy, how can they declare the results when four counties have not voted? This is illegal," said a man watching a group of several hundred people chanting anti-Kenyatta slogans in the western city of Kisumu, an opposition stronghold. "Let's wait to hear what Raila will say, he will give the way forward." Despite his successful bid to overturn the results of the August election, Odinga withdrew from the re-run some two weeks beforehand, citing concerns the new vote would be neither free nor fair. He has since pledged to transform his National Super Alliance (Nasa) coalition into "a resistance movement" that will spearhead a campaign of "civil disobedience". Odinga has called for a fresh election to be held within 90 days and is likely to throw down further legal challenges to the validity of Thursday's election. "We have an announcement to make to our supporters and to the country tomorrow," a member of Odinga's entourage said on Monday, saying the 72-year-old would use the opportunity to point the way ahead. Calm Aside from some scuffles on Monday after