The Staying Alive exhibition featuring medical illustrations documenting more than 50 years of cancer research and treatment in Uganda is now at the Noorderlicht International Photography Festival, in the Netherlands. The exhibition started on October 22 and will till to November 26. It features the work of two medical illustrators, John Nyende and Collab Butungi, from the Mulago Hospital-based Uganda Cancer Institute. The aim of the exhibition is to pay tribute to human ingenuity, and showcase the artists’ representation of science. The work of the medical illustrators is to make it easy for doctors to look at human bodies ravaged by cancer. Some of the illustrations are hard to look at as they show deformed eyes almost bursting out of their sockets, deformed limbs and the manifestations of cancer in the private parts. The illustrations, all in black and white, are now acclaimed art in their own right, but only those with strong stomachs can hang them in their living rooms. Doctors use the illustrations to help patients preserve their dignity even in illness. They do this by using the illustrations when studying the progression of cancer so that they don't have to look at say a patient’s private parts afflicted by cancer. Photographs in medicine Each illustration featured in the Staying Alive show has several copies, making it possible to have the same exhibition running concurrently in different locations. Appearing alongside the illustrations are texts by Dr Dennis Burkitt on the use of photographs in medicine. In the 1950s, Dr Burkitt discovered a link between malaria and what later came to be known as Burkitt’s lymphoma. According to Prof Edward Kantongole Mbide, a student of Dr Burkitt – and later the executive director of the Uganda Cancer Institute (UCI) — Dr Burkitt travelled across Africa taking pictures of children with swellings caused by tumours. Using the pictures and the map of places he had visited, he traced a relationship between what later came to be known as Burkitt’s lymphoma and malaria. Burkitt’s lymphoma is the most common cancer among children living in malaria prone areas. One of the outstanding illustrations is that of patient Kizito, a boy who was treated at the UCI and healed of Burkitt’s lymphoma in the 1960s. Kizito’s three portraits are framed differently and displayed in a sequence showing him with a swelling in his cheek typical of Burkitt’s lymphoma, then a second portrait showing the swelling has reduced after treatment, and the third one shows him healed. The exhibition was made possible by a collaboration between anthropologist Marisa Mika and Andrea Stultien founder of History in Progress, Uganda (HIPUganda), a portal that collects and publishes photographs from private collections and archives. Exhibition The collaboration started in 2012, and documented both the chaos that the UCI endured over the years of political disfavour, and its golden period too, when Uganda was the centre of revolutionary cancer research and treatment. The current exhibition in the Netherlands is an offshoot of three exhibitions, one being Staying Alive, held at Afriart gallery in Kampala at the end of August. Organisers wanted to give art lovers an easy-to-watch exhibition on the debilitating illness. The Afriart show featured potraits of patient Kizito who has been the face of the exhibition, alongside those of the UCI healthworkers over the years including of Dr Burkitt and John Ziegler, one of the founding doctors of the UCI. The exhibition also featured photos of daily life at the lymphoma treatment centre — which was home to UCI for 45 years — and ran for 24-hours – day and night — to show that cancer is a full time illness for patients and doctors. The cancer registry at UCI is the oldest on the continent, and is expected to be an important addition to international cancer research. Dr Jackson Orem, the current executive director of UCI, says he hopes the exhibitions can later be turned into a medical museum.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.