Nina slammed on the brakes and came to a screeching halt in the middle of the bustling market. Stunned traders watched as the well-dressed woman leapt out of the car, swinging a satchel bag onto her side in one smooth motion. In her all-black outfit, she moved so fast she was a blur even in the early morning sunlight, such that no one quite saw her face. Nina ducked and weaved her way deep into the melee of the market-place; she needed to hide. As she whipped passed a newspaper vendor causing the neatly stacked papers in front of him to flutter, she heard a distinct wail in the distance, the rise and fall of sirens. Nina’s heart beat faster and her knees buckled as fear overwhelmed her for the first time since the chase had started. Her legs gave way and she stumbled and fell, finding herself at the feet of a hefty woman holding two ripe mangoes. The matronly woman started, taking in the shaking figure in front of her, before throwing her billowing skirts over Nina. Shooting a scathing look at the other traders, the fruit vendor continued arranging her wares, shining the occasional old fruit with a cloth dipped in oil. Under the layers of wrappers and skirts, Nina was blanketed in a haze of emotion. Panic, confusion, anger… and gratitude for this act of kindness that allowed her a moment of peace for the first time in hours. ************************** They had come for her in the middle of the night, expecting her to be asleep, thinking they would catch her unawares. But she had never been one to trust easily. Nina had followed her estranged husband’s every move since his troubles had begun, and culminated in him lying to the authorities that she had been involved in his schemes as well. She had packed only essentials that night, including her husband’s gun, and stored them in the boot of her car. It had been an easy escape, as the cops sneaked in through the back garden access and she drove through the front gate. A sudden lull in the market noise roused her from her thoughts. The animated voices died down, signalling the arrival of the police. They were never welcome here, always viewed through suspicious eyes. The police had switched off their sirens, wanting some element of surprise, but the charged atmosphere that swept like a wave through the market gave them away. There was an uneasy silence, then a drunkard stumbling out of a drinking den into the bright morning let out a shriek at the sight of the three police cars. Turning on his heel, he ran back into the market. “I swear it wasn’t me!” he screamed, tearing through various vendors’ stalls and causing a ruckus as people scrambled to save their wares. Nina heard the commotion and then felt a gust of fresh air as the woman hoisted up her skirts and looked at Nina kindly, a sense of urgency and worry clouding her eyes. “You seem like a good girl, my dear… Here’s your chance. Go while they’re distracted.” Scrambling to her feet, nervous energy surged through Nina’s body, she clasped the kindly lady’s hands and ran. She flew across the back end of the market, heading for a cross-bridge that would take her to the other side of the city, where unsavoury characters outnumbered common folk two to one. Arrest There, she knew she could disappear, or at least lie low until she could leave the city altogether. She was almost out of the market when she heard a shout behind her. They’d spotted her. “Stop! You’re under arrest, stop!” multiple voices chorused behind her. Then something whistled right passed her ear as a loud bang went off. They were shooting! If they wanted her, dead or alive, well that meant she was going to be the scape-goat for whatever deal had gone sour. Dead women tell no tales; she would never get to defend her innocence. Nina processed these new thoughts in seconds. Anger overtaking despair, her legs moved faster and in mere minutes she was out of the market with the bridge in her sights. Breathing heavily, she took a quick look behind her and was alarmed to see two men gaining on her with their colleagues close behind. Glancing to the other side where the bridge would take her, Nina’s heart dipped sickeningly into the pit of her stomach. There was nothing but open ground before the low lying shanty town, nowhere to hide and plenty of space for her pursuers to hit their target. Her feet slowed, but only for a second as she heard the rushing roar of cars sweeping along the highway under-pass, and an idea popped into her mind. She rounded onto the bridge, her feet pounding the metal slabs until she was half-way across, then yanked her gun out of her thigh holster and squeezed off a warning round in the direction of the approaching men. They ducked and slowed to a crawl. “I’m innocent!” Nina called out, backing up slowly until her back was to the waist high railing. “The accusations are all lies!” She inhaled deeply as she saw a trailer appear on the underpass moving relatively fast towards her; it would pass under the bridge in a few seconds. “Then why are you running? Why are you armed?” a deep voice called to her. They had already received their orders; they were not interested in the truth. “I am being framed!” Nina yelled and pulled the trigger to send the men scattering once more. Then she flipped the safety catch on, holstered the gun, swung neatly over the guard railing of the bridge and tensed her muscles for the impact of the fall. She landed with thud on the back of the trailer roof, shaken but relatively unhurt. The large truck moved on as Nina watched the shrinking figures of the police, their wild waving and screaming drowned out by the traffic. Are you an unpublished aspiring writer? You may send your 1500-word fiction short story to eastafrican@ke.nationmedia.com   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.