Rwanda's sovereign Agaciro Development Fund has reported strong growth in assets and income boosted by diversifying its investments portfolio into equities, bonds and term deposits. However, the voluntary contributions from the private sector and the public have slowed down as pledges fail to come in. The fund, which was set up in 2012 when some donors suspended funding Rwanda’s development budget, largely depends on contributions from the public and the private sector for its equity. In its October 12 financial report for the first six months of this year, the Agaciro Corporate Trust Ltd, which manages the fund, shows that grants dropped by almost 11 per cent compared with the same period in 2016. Grants dropped from Rwf5.6 billion ($6.6 million) between January and June 2016, to Rwf5 billion ($5.8 million) in the first half of this year. “This is due to some expected revenues that did not materialise during the year, and conversion of some short-term investments into long term investments that have not yet started yielding returns,” said Patrick Marara Shyaka, the chief finance officer of Agaciro Development Trust. The report indicated that interest income grew by 33 per cent to Rwf3 billion ($3.7 million) year on year, from Rwf2.3 billion ($2.8 million), helped by consolidating collections and the timely investment of revenues. The fund’s assets held to maturity grew to $10.3 million from January to June, up from $7.3 million during the same period in last year, showing growing interest in government securities. READ: Rwanda to invest Agaciro funds as contributions fizzle According to the financial report, the fund’s assets and interest income grew by double digits. Assets hit $54.9 million from January-June, 2017 from $41 million reported during the same period in 2016. However, there was a drop in surplus (profits) by Rwf12 million ($ 14,196), from $9.09 million recorded in the first six months of 2016 to $9.08 million from January-June. Capital markets have seen a general shift to fixed-income securities in the face of uncertainties surrounding bonuses across East Africa. Diversified investment “Institutional investors diversify their investments into several asset classes,” Robert Mathu, a consultant at the Rwanda Capital Markets Authority, said. He added that the growing number of Treasury bonds under the bond issuance programme on the capital market, plus increased awareness of stock market investments, are major drivers of institutional investor appetite. National Bank of Rwanda data shows that total investment by individuals in government securities increased by 62 per cent from Rwf4 billion ($4.7 million) at the end of June 2016 to Rwf7 billion ($8.2 million) in June 2017. The Agaciro fund is also a major lender to banks and microfinance institutions.However, the shift to bonds has hit banking sector deposits, with data from the central bank showing demand deposits falling. The competition for deposits has led to the banking sector offering better rates on deposits, depending on the tenor and amount. “For 12 months tenor, rates range from 7 per cent to 11 per cent,” said George Odhiambo, the managing director of KCB Bank Rwanda.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.