Talented Senegalese vocalist and bassist Alune Wade will be the leading act at the Safaricom Jazz Lounge concert to be held on November 4 at Uhuru Gardens. Over his three decade career, Wade has worked with renowned artistes such as Senegalese Ishmael Lo. His latest album, Havana – Paris – Dakar, is a collaboration with Cuban Pianist Harold Lopez-Nussa. “We are honoured to be hosting yet another influential African Jazz musician who has not only played a role in exposing African music to the world, but who also is a master at cross-cultural collaboration,” said Bob Collymore, the CEO of Safaricom. Born in 1978 in Dakar, Senegal, Wade grew up surrounded by music. His father was a leader of a symphonic orchestra, and he began playing instruments at the age of six. Chosen instrument At 13, the bass became Wade’s chosen instrument, and, with his father’s encouragement, joined his orchestra. One year later, he joined Ishmael Lo’s band, touring as his bassist all across the globe. In 2006, Wade released his debut solo album Mbolo (which means unity in Wolof). His second album was dubbed Ayo Nene and was released in 2010. Jazz singer and composer Kavita Shah, based in New York, will also be part of the line-up alongside two Kenyan bands — Mambo Tribe, and the Limericks. “The main objective of Safaricom Jazz is for Kenyan artistes to interact and collaborate with their international counterparts. So far we have had Edward Parseen and the Different Faces Band, Swahili Jazz Band, Shamsi Music and the Nairobi Horns Project share the stage with some of the world’s top jazz performers,” said Mr Collymore. Music programme Proceeds from all ticket sales will be donated to the Ghetto Classics Music programme based in Korogocho, Nairobi. The music programme has been supported by ticket earnings from the Safaricom International Jazz Festival since 2014. Funds raised so far have been used for the purchase of musical instruments for 650 children in the community programme. The first Safaricom International Festival event was held in February 2014 and was headlined by New-York based Cameroonian artist Richard Bona.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.