The National Public Procurement Authority (NPPA) has blacklisted 181 companies for involvement in tender fraud. Of these, 34 companies were blacklisted for provision of false information in bids for government tenders, and poor contract performance after being awarded tenders.Some companies, such as Mukunzi Construction, which is accused of providing false information in bidding documents will not be qualified to work with government until June 2022. The same applies to Faram East African Ltd, which had won a tender in 2016 but execution was poor. It is blacklisted from August this year to August 2021. These companies are mainly small and medium enterprises – and some owners who spoke on condition of anonymity told Rwanda Today that they struggle with internal challenges, such as lack of capacity and limited skills to prepare proper bid documents. Others however, are considering lawsuits against the government agencies that blacklist them. “Several public entities lack credible procurements plans. They have gaps in the processes, but instead of addressing those gaps, they act quickly to blacklist companies, especially small ones, when they think that there is an irregularity,” one business owner said. Procurement practices He added that although the blacklisted companies are not barred from applying for bids from the private sector, they are shunned because their names and companies are publically listed on government websites. Director general of NPPA, Augustus Seminega told Rwanda Today that his agency regularly conducts training seminars countrywide to empower small and medium firms in preparing professional bid documents. “When you look at the reasons why some of them are blacklisted, it’s because they offer falsehoods on their documents. Sometimes these falsehoods are prosecutable; so blacklisting them is important because we want only credible companies to be dealing with government,” he said. “We are trying to empower them by training them, and we are reviewing the tendering systems in ministries and other public agencies to close gaps in public procurement plans,” he added. Auditor-General’s Office raised concerns over inappropriate procurement practices in government institutions. The office noted that there is an increasing trend in public entities where internal tender committees frequently makes price adjustments on bids submitted to correct arithmetic errors. “While the practice is legally provided for under the procurement laws, its frequent use and changes in bid prices is an indicator of some emerging challenge in procurement and could easily be abused,” reads Auditor General’s Report on the state of finances for 2016. The office noted that government contracts worth Rwf15 billion were affected when institutions failed to recover guarantees provided by the companies that won tenders, either because the guarantees had expired or because the guarantees had been forged and hence not enforceable. Effective November this year, public institutions will be required to utilise the e-procurement system to blacklist companies that they catch in engaging in tender fraud.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.