While the results of the repeat election are still pending, it is clear that democracy in Kenya is in peril. Kenyatta must pursue the path of dialogue. Voting continued in some areas on Saturday, but Raila Odinga’s decision to boycott the election leaves only one outcome possible: President Uhuru Kenyatta will receive the majority of votes cast. Any result, however, is marred by the choice millions of Kenyans made to not participate in the most basic, fundamental exercise of democracy. It is marred by the reality that without Raila, the election was not a contest. Turnout across the country was much, much lower than in the previous vote in August. It may well prove to have been the lowest turnout in Kenya’s history of multiparty elections. Many people, even if they favoured Kenyatta, were anxious, and either decided that going to vote was not worth the trouble, or that the election should have been delayed, and stayed at home. With a significant number of polling stations in various parts of the country unable to open, either due to a lack of electoral staff or because of precarious security conditions, the legal and political legitimacy of the election was only further eroded. More people were killed and injured by what is likely to have been disproportionate police action. Citing a lack of security, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission postponed voting until further notice in four counties: Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori, all areas that voted heavily for Odinga in August. These four constituencies have just under 1.9 million registered voters. Political differences in Kenya are not new, but this electoral process has only further exacerbated social divisions. Nearly half (if not a full half) of the country wants a different political leader to the one they have. The choice President Kenyatta has a choice. He can meaningfully reach out to his opponent, his allies and supporters, and accept the hard path of reconciliation and dialogue, even if, as may occur, any initial overture is rebuffed. True magnanimity and humility is not demonstrated by a one-time offer. Or, the resident can pursue a path of confrontation. There are instructive, warning examples from the region: Tanzania in 2015 and Zambia in 2016. In both countries, the presidential candidates of the incumbent political parties, John Magufuli in Tanzania, and Edgar Lungu in Zambia, won office. Both elections were competitive, but disputed. Both countries saw almost half of their populations vote for opposition candidates: Edward Lowassa in Tanzania and Hakainde Hichilema in Zambia. Like Raila Odinga, both Lowassa and Hichilema were veterans of the political scene. Like Raila, Lowassa once served as prime minister. Like Raila, Hichilema ran for president multiple times (five to Odinga’s four). The divisions, anger, and mistrust in these electoral processes among supporters of the opposition were clear in both countries. Yet neither resident of State House pursued paths of reconciliation and compromise. Instead, they largely acted in ways that sought confrontation, undermined independ